docs/loading/Flink_cdc_load.md, before:

# Synchronize data from MySQL

This topic describes how to synchronize data from MySQL to StarRocks in seconds by using Flink CDC Connector, flink-starrocks-connector, and StarRocks Migration Tools (SMT).

## Before you begin

Before you start data synchronization, enable the binary logging in MySQL and download the following software packages:

- Modify the **/etc/my.cnf** file to enable binary logging in MySQL and then restart MySQL Server (mysqld). You can execute the SHOW VARIABLES LIKE 'log_bin' statement to check whether binary logging is enabled.

    ```Plain%20Text
    #Enable binlog

    log-bin=/var/lib/mysql/mysql-bin



    #log_bin=ON

    ##Base name for binlog files

    #log_bin_basename=/var/lib/mysql/mysql-bin

    ##Index file to manage all binlog files

    #log_bin_index=/var/lib/mysql/mysql-bin.index

    #Configure serverid

    server-id=1

    binlog_format = row
    ```

- [Apache Flink](https://flink.apache.org/downloads.html). Only Apache Flink 1.1 and later are supported. We recommend that you download Apache Flink 1.13.
- [Flink CDC Connector](https://github.com/ververica/flink-cdc-connectors/releases). To synchronize data from MySQL to StarRocks, download Flink-MySQL-CDC that is used with the version of Apache Flink you downloaded.
- [Flink-connector-starrocks](https://github.com/StarRocks/flink-connector-starrocks). Apache Flink 1.13 uses a different version of flink-connector-starrocks than Apache Flink 1.11 and Apache Flink 1.12.
- [SMT](http://starrocks-public.oss-cn-zhangjiakou.aliyuncs.com/flink/smt.tar.gz)

## How it works

![MySQL 同步](../assets/4.9.2.png)

The preceding figure shows the workflow of data synchronization:

1. SMT generates the statements that are used to create the source table and the sink table based on the cluster information and the table schema of MySQL and StarRocks.
2. Flink CDC Connector acquires binary log data from MySQL.
3. Flink-connector-starrocks loads the data into StarRocks.  

## Procedure

 Perform the following steps to synchronize data:

1. Duplicate flink-sql-connector-mysql-cdc-xxx.jar and flink-connector-starrocks-xxx.jar to the `flink-xxx/lib/` directory.
2. Decompress SMT and modify the configuration file of SMT:

    - `DB`: modify the value of this parameter to the connection information of MySQL.

    - `be_num`: the number of nodes in your StarRocks cluster. This parameter helps you to set the number of buckets more reasonably.

    - `[table-rule.1]`: the rule based on which you want to match data. You can match the databases and tables by using regular expressions, thus generate the SQL statements that are used to create tables. You can configure multiple rules.

    - `flink.starrocks.*`: the configuration information of your StarRocks cluster. For more information, see [Load data by using flink-connector-starrocks](Flink-connector-starrocks.md).

        ```Plain%20Text
        [db]

        host = 192.168.1.1

        port = 3306

        user = root

        password =  



        [other]

        # number of backends in StarRocks

        be_num = 3

        # `decimal_v3` is supported since StarRocks-1.18.1

        use_decimal_v3 = false

        # file to save the converted DDL SQL

        output_dir = ./result





        [table-rule.1]

        # pattern to match databases for setting properties

        database = ^console_19321.*$

        # pattern to match tables for setting properties

        table = ^.*$



        ############################################

        ### flink sink configurations

        ### DO NOT set `connector`, `table-name`, `database-name`, they are auto-generated

        ############################################

        flink.starrocks.jdbc-url=jdbc:mysql://192.168.1.1:9030

        flink.starrocks.load-url= 192.168.1.1:8030

        flink.starrocks.username=root

        flink.starrocks.password=

        flink.starrocks.sink.properties.column_separator=\x01

        flink.starrocks.sink.properties.row_delimiter=\x02

        flink.starrocks.sink.buffer-flush.interval-ms=15000
        ```

3. Use the statements that are generated by SMT to create StarRocks tables and Apache Flink tables. All generated statements are saved in the **result** directory.

    ```SQL
    $./starrocks-migrate-tool

    $ls result

    flink-create.1.sql    smt.tar.gz              starrocks-create.all.sql

    flink-create.all.sql  starrocks-create.1.sql
    ```

4. Create a StarRocks table.

    ```SQL
    Mysql -hxx.xx.xx.x -P9030 -uroot -p < starrocks-create.1.sql
    ```

5. Create an Apache Flink table and then start a data synchronization task. Once the synchronization task begins, all existing data and subsequent modifications to data are synchronized to StarRocks.

    > Note: When you perform this step, ensure that the Apache Flink cluster has been started. If not, use the `flink/bin/start-cluster.sh` to start it.

    ```SQL
    bin/sql-client.sh -f flink-create.1.sql
    ```

6. Check the status of the synchronization task. If an error occurs, you can view the task log for the error message and then adjust the memory and the slot in the system configuration of **conf/flink-conf.yaml**. For more information, see [Configuration](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-master/zh/docs/deployment/config/) in Apache Flink.

    ```SQL
    bin/flink list 
    ```

## Usage note

- If you configure multiple match rules, you need to match the database, table, and flink-connector-starrocks for each match rule.

    ```Plain%20Text
    [table-rule.1]

    # pattern to match databases for setting properties

    database = ^console_19321.*$

    # pattern to match tables for setting properties

    table = ^.*$



    ############################################

    ### flink sink configurations

    ### DO NOT set `connector`, `table-name`, `database-name`, they are auto-generated

    ############################################

    flink.starrocks.jdbc-url=jdbc:mysql://192.168.1.1:9030

    flink.starrocks.load-url= 192.168.1.1:8030

    flink.starrocks.username=root

    flink.starrocks.password=

    flink.starrocks.sink.properties.column_separator=\x01

    flink.starrocks.sink.properties.row_delimiter=\x02

    flink.starrocks.sink.buffer-flush.interval-ms=15000



    [table-rule.2]

    # pattern to match databases for setting properties

    database = ^database2.*$

    # pattern to match tables for setting properties

    table = ^.*$



    ############################################

    ### flink sink configurations

    ### DO NOT set `connector`, `table-name`, `database-name`, they are auto-generated

    ############################################

    flink.starrocks.jdbc-url=jdbc:mysql://192.168.1.1:9030

    flink.starrocks.load-url= 192.168.1.1:8030

    flink.starrocks.username=root

    flink.starrocks.password=

    # If you cannot select a suitable separator for the loaded data, you can use JSON format by replacing flink.starrocks.sink.properties.column_separator and flink.starrocks.sink.properties.row_delimiter with the following parameters. Note: By doing so, the import performance will be impacted. 

    flink.starrocks.sink.properties.strip_outer_array=true

    flink.starrocks.sink.properties.format=json
    ```

    > Note: If you want to configure more parameters, such as the frequency to load data, see [Load data by using Flink-connector-starrocks](Flink-connector-starrocks.md) for more information about `sink`.

- You can configure an individual match rule for a sharded large table. For example, you have two databases, `edu_db_1` and `edu_db_2`, each database contains two tables, `course_1` and `course_2`. In addition, all these tables use the same schema. You can use the following configurations to load the preceding four tables into StarRocks:

    ```Plain%20Text
    [table-rule.3]

    # pattern to match databases for setting properties

    database = ^edu_db_[0-9]*$

    # pattern to match tables for setting properties

    table = ^course_[0-9]*$



    ############################################

    ### flink sink configurations

    ### DO NOT set `connector`, `table-name`, `database-name`, they are auto-generated

    ############################################

    flink.starrocks.jdbc-url=jdbc:mysql://192.168.1.1:9030

    flink.starrocks.load-url= 192.168.1.1:8030

    flink.starrocks.username=root

    flink.starrocks.password=

    flink.starrocks.sink.properties.column_separator=\x01

    flink.starrocks.sink.properties.row_delimiter=\x02

    flink.starrocks.sink.buffer-flush.interval-ms=5000
    ```

    After the tables are loaded, StarRocks generates a new table named `course_auto_shared`. You can modify the name of the table in the configuration file that is automatically generated.

- If you want to create tables and synchronize data by using the command line of SQL Client, you need to escape the `\` (backslash).

    ```SQL
    'sink.properties.column_separator' = '\\x01'

    'sink.properties.row_delimiter' = '\\x02'  
    ```

Commit message:

[Docs]flink-connector-supports-partial-updates

docs/loading/Flink_cdc_load.md, after:

# Synchronize data from MySQL

This topic describes how to synchronize data from MySQL to StarRocks in seconds by using Flink CDC Connector, flink-starrocks-connector, and StarRocks Migration Tools (SMT).

## Before you begin

Before you start data synchronization, enable the binary logging in MySQL and download the following software packages:

- Modify the **/etc/my.cnf** file to enable binary logging in MySQL and then restart MySQL Server (mysqld). You can execute the SHOW VARIABLES LIKE 'log_bin' statement to check whether binary logging is enabled.

    ```Plain%20Text
    #Enable binlog

    log-bin=/var/lib/mysql/mysql-bin



    #log_bin=ON

    ##Base name for binlog files

    #log_bin_basename=/var/lib/mysql/mysql-bin

    ##Index file to manage all binlog files

    #log_bin_index=/var/lib/mysql/mysql-bin.index

    #Configure serverid

    server-id=1

    binlog_format = row
    ```

- [Apache Flink](https://flink.apache.org/downloads.html). Only Apache Flink 1.1 and later are supported. We recommend that you download Apache Flink 1.13.
- [Flink CDC Connector](https://github.com/ververica/flink-cdc-connectors/releases). To synchronize data from MySQL to StarRocks, download Flink-MySQL-CDC that is used with the version of Apache Flink you downloaded.
- [Flink-connector-starrocks](https://github.com/StarRocks/flink-connector-starrocks). Apache Flink 1.13 uses a different version of flink-connector-starrocks than Apache Flink 1.11 and Apache Flink 1.12.
- [SMT](http://starrocks-public.oss-cn-zhangjiakou.aliyuncs.com/flink/smt.tar.gz)

## How it works

![MySQL 同步](../assets/4.9.2.png)

The preceding figure shows the workflow of data synchronization:

1. SMT generates the statements that are used to create the source table and the sink table based on the cluster information and the table schema of MySQL and StarRocks.
2. Flink CDC Connector acquires binary log data from MySQL.
3. Flink-connector-starrocks loads the data into StarRocks.  

## Procedure

 Perform the following steps to synchronize data:

1. Duplicate flink-sql-connector-mysql-cdc-xxx.jar and flink-connector-starrocks-xxx.jar to the `flink-xxx/lib/` directory.
2. Decompress SMT and modify the configuration file of SMT:

    - `DB`: modify the value of this parameter to the connection information of MySQL.

    - `be_num`: the number of nodes in your StarRocks cluster. This parameter helps you to set the number of buckets more reasonably.

    - `[table-rule.1]`: the rule based on which you want to match data. You can match the databases and tables by using regular expressions, thus generate the SQL statements that are used to create tables. You can configure multiple rules.

    - `flink.starrocks.*`: the configurations for the StarRocks cluster and loading jobs. For more information, see [Load data by using flink-connector-starrocks](Flink-connector-starrocks.md). Since 2.4, StarRocks support partial updates for primary key model. You can specify the columns to be updated by configuring properties `flink.starrocks.sink.properties.partial_update=true`, `flink.starrocks.sink.properties.columns=k1,k2,k3`.

        ```Plain%20Text
        [db]

        host = 192.168.1.1

        port = 3306

        user = root

        password =  



        [other]

        # number of backends in StarRocks

        be_num = 3

        # `decimal_v3` is supported since StarRocks-1.18.1

        use_decimal_v3 = false

        # file to save the converted DDL SQL

        output_dir = ./result





        [table-rule.1]

        # pattern to match databases for setting properties

        database = ^console_19321.*$

        # pattern to match tables for setting properties

        table = ^.*$



        ############################################

        ### flink sink configurations

        ### DO NOT set `connector`, `table-name`, `database-name`, they are auto-generated

        ############################################

        flink.starrocks.jdbc-url=jdbc:mysql://192.168.1.1:9030

        flink.starrocks.load-url= 192.168.1.1:8030

        flink.starrocks.username=root

        flink.starrocks.password=

        flink.starrocks.sink.properties.column_separator=\x01

        flink.starrocks.sink.properties.row_delimiter=\x02

        flink.starrocks.sink.buffer-flush.interval-ms=15000
        ```

3. Use the statements that are generated by SMT to create StarRocks tables and Apache Flink tables. All generated statements are saved in the **result** directory.

    ```SQL
    $./starrocks-migrate-tool

    $ls result

    flink-create.1.sql    smt.tar.gz              starrocks-create.all.sql

    flink-create.all.sql  starrocks-create.1.sql
    ```

4. Create a StarRocks table.

    ```SQL
    Mysql -hxx.xx.xx.x -P9030 -uroot -p < starrocks-create.1.sql
    ```

5. Create an Apache Flink table and then start a data synchronization task. Once the synchronization task begins, all existing data and subsequent modifications to data are synchronized to StarRocks.

    > Note: When you perform this step, ensure that the Apache Flink cluster has been started. If not, use the `flink/bin/start-cluster.sh` to start it.

    ```SQL
    bin/sql-client.sh -f flink-create.1.sql
    ```

6. Check the status of the synchronization task. If an error occurs, you can view the task log for the error message and then adjust the memory and the slot in the system configuration of **conf/flink-conf.yaml**. For more information, see [Configuration](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-master/zh/docs/deployment/config/) in Apache Flink.

    ```SQL
    bin/flink list 
    ```

## Usage note

- If you configure multiple match rules, you need to match the database, table, and flink-connector-starrocks for each match rule.

    ```Plain%20Text
    [table-rule.1]

    # pattern to match databases for setting properties

    database = ^console_19321.*$

    # pattern to match tables for setting properties

    table = ^.*$



    ############################################

    ### flink sink configurations

    ### DO NOT set `connector`, `table-name`, `database-name`, they are auto-generated

    ############################################

    flink.starrocks.jdbc-url=jdbc:mysql://192.168.1.1:9030

    flink.starrocks.load-url= 192.168.1.1:8030

    flink.starrocks.username=root

    flink.starrocks.password=

    flink.starrocks.sink.properties.column_separator=\x01

    flink.starrocks.sink.properties.row_delimiter=\x02

    flink.starrocks.sink.buffer-flush.interval-ms=15000



    [table-rule.2]

    # pattern to match databases for setting properties

    database = ^database2.*$

    # pattern to match tables for setting properties

    table = ^.*$



    ############################################

    ### flink sink configurations

    ### DO NOT set `connector`, `table-name`, `database-name`, they are auto-generated

    ############################################

    flink.starrocks.jdbc-url=jdbc:mysql://192.168.1.1:9030

    flink.starrocks.load-url= 192.168.1.1:8030

    flink.starrocks.username=root

    flink.starrocks.password=

    # If you cannot select a suitable separator for the loaded data, you can use JSON format by replacing flink.starrocks.sink.properties.column_separator and flink.starrocks.sink.properties.row_delimiter with the following parameters. Note: By doing so, the import performance will be impacted. 

    flink.starrocks.sink.properties.strip_outer_array=true

    flink.starrocks.sink.properties.format=json
    ```

    > Note: If you want to configure more parameters, such as the frequency to load data, see [Load data by using Flink-connector-starrocks](Flink-connector-starrocks.md) for more information about `sink`.

- You can configure an individual match rule for a sharded large table. For example, you have two databases, `edu_db_1` and `edu_db_2`, each database contains two tables, `course_1` and `course_2`. In addition, all these tables use the same schema. You can use the following configurations to load the preceding four tables into StarRocks:

    ```Plain%20Text
    [table-rule.3]

    # pattern to match databases for setting properties

    database = ^edu_db_[0-9]*$

    # pattern to match tables for setting properties

    table = ^course_[0-9]*$



    ############################################

    ### flink sink configurations

    ### DO NOT set `connector`, `table-name`, `database-name`, they are auto-generated

    ############################################

    flink.starrocks.jdbc-url=jdbc:mysql://192.168.1.1:9030

    flink.starrocks.load-url= 192.168.1.1:8030

    flink.starrocks.username=root

    flink.starrocks.password=

    flink.starrocks.sink.properties.column_separator=\x01

    flink.starrocks.sink.properties.row_delimiter=\x02

    flink.starrocks.sink.buffer-flush.interval-ms=5000
    ```

    After the tables are loaded, StarRocks generates a new table named `course_auto_shared`. You can modify the name of the table in the configuration file that is automatically generated.

- If you want to create tables and synchronize data by using the command line of SQL Client, you need to escape the `\` (backslash).

    ```SQL
    'sink.properties.column_separator' = '\\x01'

    'sink.properties.row_delimiter' = '\\x02'  
    ```
