docs/sql-reference/sql-functions/aggregate-functions/count.md, before:


# count

## Description

Returns the total number of rows specified by an expression.

This function has three variations:

- `COUNT(*)` counts all rows in a table, no matter whether they contain NULL values.

- `COUNT(expr)` counts the number of rows with non-NULL values in a specific column.

- `COUNT(DISTINCT expr)` counts the number of distinct non-NULL values in a column.

This function can be used with WHERE and GROUP BY.

`COUNT(DISTINCT expr)` is used for exact count distinct. If you require higher count distinct performance, see [Use bitmap for exact count discount](../../../using_starrocks/Using_bitmap.md).

From StarRocks 2.4 onwards, you can specify multiple fields for DISTINCT.

## Syntax

~~~sql
COUNT(expr)
COUNT(DISTINCT expr [,expr,...])`
~~~

## Parameters

`expr`: the column or expression based on which `count()` is performed. If `expr` is a column name, the column can be of any data type.

## Return value

Returns a numeric value. If no rows can be found, 0 is returned. This function ignores NULL values.

## Examples

Suppose there is a table named `test`. Query the country, category, and supplier of each order by `id`.

~~~Plain
select * from test order by id;
+------+----------+----------+------------+
| id   | country  | category | supplier   |
+------+----------+----------+------------+
| 1001 | US       | A        | supplier_1 |
| 1002 | Thailand | A        | supplier_2 |
| 1003 | Turkey   | B        | supplier_3 |
| 1004 | US       | A        | supplier_2 |
| 1005 | China    | C        | supplier_4 |
| 1006 | Japan    | D        | supplier_3 |
| 1007 | Japan    | NULL     | supplier_5 |
+------+----------+----------+------------+
~~~

Example 1：Count the number of rows in table `test`.

~~~Plain
    select count(*) from test;
    +----------+
    | count(*) |
    +----------+
    |        7 |
    +----------+
~~~

Example 2：Count the number of values in the `id` column.

~~~Plain
    select count(id) from test;
    +-----------+
    | count(id) |
    +-----------+
    |         7 |
    +-----------+
~~~

Example 3: Count the number of values in the `category` column while ignoring NULL values.

~~~Plain
select count(category) from test;
  +-----------------+
  | count(category) |
  +-----------------+
  |         6       |
  +-----------------+
~~~

Example 4：Count the number of distinct values in the `category` column.

~~~Plain
select count(distinct category) from test;
+-------------------------+
| count(DISTINCT category) |
+-------------------------+
|                       4 |
+-------------------------+
~~~

Example 5：Count the number of combinations that can be formed by `category` and `supplier`.

~~~Plain
select count(distinct category, supplier) from test;
+------------------------------------+
| count(DISTINCT category, supplier) |
+------------------------------------+
|                                  5 |
+------------------------------------+
~~~

In the output, the combination with `id` 1004 duplicates with the combination with `id` 1002. They are counted only once.

The combination with `id` 1007 has a NULL value and is not counted.

Commit message:

[Doc] count(distinct),limits,retries for Branch 2.4 (#12125)
* update count distinct

* update sink.max-retries

* update system limits

docs/sql-reference/sql-functions/aggregate-functions/count.md, after:


# count

## Description

Returns the total number of rows specified by an expression.

This function has three variations:

- `COUNT(*)` counts all rows in a table, no matter whether they contain NULL values.

- `COUNT(expr)` counts the number of rows with non-NULL values in a specific column.

- `COUNT(DISTINCT expr)` counts the number of distinct non-NULL values in a column.

`COUNT(DISTINCT expr)` is used for exact count distinct. If you require higher count distinct performance, see [Use bitmap for exact count discount](../../../using_starrocks/Using_bitmap.md).

From StarRocks 2.4 onwards, you can use multiple COUNT(DISTINCT) in one statement.

## Syntax

~~~sql
COUNT(expr)
COUNT(DISTINCT expr [,expr,...])`
~~~

## Parameters

`expr`: the column or expression based on which `count()` is performed. If `expr` is a column name, the column can be of any data type.

## Return value

Returns a numeric value. If no rows can be found, 0 is returned. This function ignores NULL values.

## Examples

Suppose there is a table named `test`. Query the country, category, and supplier of each order by `id`.

~~~Plain
select * from test order by id;
+------+----------+----------+------------+
| id   | country  | category | supplier   |
+------+----------+----------+------------+
| 1001 | US       | A        | supplier_1 |
| 1002 | Thailand | A        | supplier_2 |
| 1003 | Turkey   | B        | supplier_3 |
| 1004 | US       | A        | supplier_2 |
| 1005 | China    | C        | supplier_4 |
| 1006 | Japan    | D        | supplier_3 |
| 1007 | Japan    | NULL     | supplier_5 |
+------+----------+----------+------------+
~~~

Example 1：Count the number of rows in table `test`.

~~~Plain
    select count(*) from test;
    +----------+
    | count(*) |
    +----------+
    |        7 |
    +----------+
~~~

Example 2：Count the number of values in the `id` column.

~~~Plain
    select count(id) from test;
    +-----------+
    | count(id) |
    +-----------+
    |         7 |
    +-----------+
~~~

Example 3: Count the number of values in the `category` column while ignoring NULL values.

~~~Plain
select count(category) from test;
  +-----------------+
  | count(category) |
  +-----------------+
  |         6       |
  +-----------------+
~~~

Example 4：Count the number of distinct values in the `category` column.

~~~Plain
select count(distinct category) from test;
+-------------------------+
| count(DISTINCT category) |
+-------------------------+
|                       4 |
+-------------------------+
~~~

Example 5：Count the number of combinations that can be formed by `category` and `supplier`.

~~~Plain
select count(distinct category, supplier) from test;
+------------------------------------+
| count(DISTINCT category, supplier) |
+------------------------------------+
|                                  5 |
+------------------------------------+
~~~

In the output, the combination with `id` 1004 duplicates with the combination with `id` 1002. They are counted only once. The combination with `id` 1007 has a NULL value and is not counted.

Example 6: Use multiple COUNT(DISTINCT) in one statement.

~~~Plain
select count(distinct country, category), count(distinct country,supplier) from test;
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| count(DISTINCT country, category) | count(DISTINCT country, supplier) |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
|                                 6 |                                 7 |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
~~~
