# Docs

## The `docusaurus` dir

Allows tech writers to build the docs locally.

Our docs are in `docs/en` and `docs/zh`. When versioning and internationalization are enabled
in Docusaurus the markdown files need to be in `docs/` and `i18n/zh/some long path`. The
best way to deal with this is to run Docusaurus in a Docker container and mount the `docs/en`
and `docs/zh` directories where Docusaurus expects to find them.

### Build a Docker image for Docusaurus

In order to run Docusaurus in Docker we need a Docker image
with the correct Docusausaurus config files, Nodejs version,
etc. If you change the configuration file `docusaurus.config.js`
or the  `sidebars.json` then you will need to build. The build
is very quick, and you will have to do it at least once.

- Open Terminal and cd into the `docusaurus` dir
- Run the script `./scripts/docker-image.sh`

  > Note:
  >
  > Run the script from the `docusaurus` directory

### Run Docusaurus in development mode

When you run Docusaurus in development mode any changes made to your doc files will be
visible in your browser as the Docker container will rebuild the pages as you save them
to disk.

- Run the script `./scripts/docker-run.sh`

  > Note:
  >
  > Run the script from the `docusaurus` directory

### Make an optimized build with both English and Chinese languages

It is important to do a full build so that you can see the effect of
switching languages and make sure that the nav is good for both English
and Chinese. Run a full build with `./scripts/docker-build.sh`

  > Note:
  >
  > This build generates the HTML and then serves it. The pages will not update as you edit them, you will have to stop the container and restart it. Remember to run the `./scripts/docker-image.sh` command if you are editing the sidebars.json file.

### Navigation

Navigation is managed with the sidebar files and `_category_.json` files. At the moment these
are in the docs-site repo as adding them to the starrocks repo whie we were still running Gatsby
would have caused problems.

As soon as possible I will move the sidebars into the starrocks repo, and then you will be able
to manage them and the category files along with the docs.

Right now the nav is autogenerated based on directory names.

## Release notes

> Note:
>
> This section of the README is not implemented yet. I tried to build the releasenotes as described below and got close, but switching from English to Chinese for the release notes was not reliable, so I backed it out. When I have time I will work with Docusaurus RD to get it working.

The way release notes are rendered in Docusaurus and in Gatsby is different. In Gatsby the links like `../quick_start/abc.md` refer to the main branch (or maybe 3.1?) no matter which version of the docs the reader is looking at. In Docusaurus when we add a release note file to a particular version those links are looking for a doc in that version.  This means almost every link from the 3.1 release notes that we copy into the 1.19 version is going to fail.

The way Docusaurus sites deal with things that should not be versioned is add them to a separate nav. At the top of our page we will have `Documentation`, `Release Notes`, version list, language list. The release notes will always be from the main branch.

During the build process the English release notes and ecosystem release notes markdown files need to be in the `docs-site/releasenotes` dir

During the build process the Chinese release notes and ecosystem release notes markdown files need to be in the `docs-site/i18n/zh/docusaurus-plugin-content-docs-releasenotes` dir

## Editing nav

At some point I will move the files used to manage the nav into the docs repos. First I need to write a configuration that will allow the writers to quickly build out the docs and see a preview of a PR.  This will involve building only the version that is being edited, and building for both Chinese and English so that the nav and content can be verified in both places. Here are the basic steps for editing the nav, full details will follow:

1. Checkout `StarRocks/docs-site`
1. Switch to the `docusaurus` branch
1. Create a new working branch from the `docusaurus` branch
1. Edit the nav for the version that you are working on
1. Submit a PR
1. Have the PR reviewed and merged
1. Run the workflow to deploy to staging

### Simple case, removing or adding a doc

This example removes a doc, and adding a doc can be done in one of two ways:

- add a markdown file to a dir that has its nav auto-generated
- add an entry to the list of items

This example removes a doc from a list of items:

#### Checkout `StarRocks/docs-site`

Ha! I tried to do all this stuff in VS Code, but what a nightmare. My fingers know the commandline, and I just can't do this with a mouse and menu. You know how to do this already anyway.

#### Switch to the `docusaurus` branch

Right now we are working in a branch named `docusaurus`, so switch there first.

#### Create a new working branch from the `docusaurus` branch

When you create your branch to work on the PR base it off of the `docusaurus` branch, not master.

#### Edit the nav for the version that you are working on

The nav files are in [`versioned_sidebars/`](https://github.com/StarRocks/docs-site/tree/docusaurus/versioned_sidebars) (nav in Docusaurus is called **Sidebar**). If you are working on 3.1 then `versioned_sidebars/version-3.1`. This file contains both English and Chinese sidebars.

> Note on file structure:
>
> The file structure for English and Chinese should be the same, if there is a file in English that is not in Chinese then the English doc will be used for both. If there is a Chinese doc that is not in English then Docusaurus will not build. At one point the Dataphin doc was not in English yet, so I had to create a dummy file.
>
> There can be nav differences, for example when there was no Dataphin doc in English I created a dummy file and just left it out of the nav. This is easy for categories with only a few entries as we can just list all of them, but for large directories full of files I just tell Docusaurus to include all of the files in the directory, so we cannot ignore files if we do that. If you compare the TOC.md for the SQL functions in Gatsby with the sidebar for Docusaurus you will see that I do not list all of the files for the SQL functions, I only list them if there are different categories mixed together in one directory. In the future I would like to create more directories and move the files into directories to match the nav and then we can save effort.

#### Submit a PR

This PR [removes a file that should not show in nav](https://github.com/StarRocks/docs-site/pull/140/files). This is easy when we list the files individually, which is true in this case.

#### Have the PR reviewed and merged

Same as always

#### Run the workflow to deploy to staging

Running the workflows is the same as it was for Gatsby, open Actions, choose the workflow, and push the button. Right now the names of the workflows are `__Stage__Deploy_docusaurus` and `__Prod__Deploy_docusaurus`

Run the `__Stage` one and view the docs at `https://docs-stage.docusaurus.io` and then deploy to Prod if you like what you see.

### Change the name of a doc

Sometimes we have really long titles in our docs, and don't want the long thing used in the nav. Alternatively, sometimes we have docs with the title `# Rules` (see the Developers > Style Guides for two examples!). There are two choices, but for now I will only give you one as we cannot use the second choice yet until I fix another problem.

To change the name shown in the sidebar, just edit the title of the doc:

#### Change the title and therefor the nav label

In TOC.md we specified the label to associate with every category and file. We could do that with Docusaurus, but I suggest that we use the title of the doc as the sidebar label. One of the issues in the docs-site repo is about a misnamed file in the nav. The easy fix is to change the title in the file. This [PR in StarRocks/starrocks`](https://github.com/StarRocks/starrocks/pull/34243/files#diff-70c336ebca1518c87e270411fc53419ffb44cd95792a85afd1592fafd6c57e9f) fixes the problem.

### Changing the levels of the categories

There are some errors in the nav, [issue 105](https://github.com/StarRocks/docs-site/issues/105) raises one of them. When I was writing the JSON for the Administration section I thought everything was under Administration > Management. This is what the JSON looks like:

```json
    {
      "type": "category",
      "label": "Administration",
      "link": {"type": "doc", "id": "administration/administration"},
      "items": [
        {
          "type": "category",
          "label": "Management",
          "link": {"type": "doc", "id": "cover_pages/management"},
          "items": [
            "administration/Scale_up_down",
            "administration/Backup_and_restore",
            "administration/Configuration",
            "administration/Monitor_and_Alert",
            "administration/audit_loader",
            "administration/enable_fqdn",
            "administration/timezone",
            "administration/information_schema",
            "administration/monitor_manage_big_queries",
            {
              "type": "category",
              "label": "Resource management",
              "link": {"type": "doc", "id": "cover_pages/resource_management"},
              "items": [
                "administration/resource_group",
                "administration/query_queues",
                "administration/Query_management",
                "administration/Memory_management",
                "administration/spill_to_disk",
                "administration/Load_balance",
                "administration/Replica",
                "administration/Blacklist"
              ]

            },
            "administration/Data_recovery",
            {
              "type": "category",
              "label": "User Privileges and Authentication",
              "link": {"type": "doc", "id": "administration/privilege_overview"},
              "items": [
                "administration/privilege_item",
                "administration/User_privilege",
                "administration/privilege_faq",
                "administration/Authentication"
              ]
            },
            {
              "type": "category",
              "label": "Performance Tuning",
              "link": {"type": "doc", "id": "cover_pages/performance_tuning"},
              "items": [
                "administration/Query_planning",
                "administration/query_profile",
                "administration/Profiling"
              ]
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    },
```

I think User Priv and Performance Tuning need to be moved to the same level as Management and Data Recovery.

## Old historical info

**Ignore anything below here**

## Building with GitHub actions

There are test build and deploy to GitHub Pages jobs in `.github/workflows/`.
These pull the English docs and the Chinese docs, check out the versions,
and put the Markdown files into place for Docusaurus.

Before generating the HTML some modifications are made to the Markdown files:

- removing the TOC.md and README.md files
- replacing the StarRocks_intro pages with ones that use Docusaurus styling
- adding frontmatter to all of the Markdown to specify which sidebar (English or Chinese) is to be used
- the `docs/assets/` dir is renamed to `_assets`. This is done as Docusaurus automatically
ignores markdown files in dirs that start with an underscore. This is also why I have my `_IGNORE`
dirname. This is where I pop markdown files that I do not want included in the docs directly.

Once we go into production the three changes above can be removed as we will:

- remove the TOC.md files as they are not used, and leave the README out of the nav
- replace the current intro pages with the new ones that work with Docusaurus
- add the frontmatter to the Markdown files in thir repos
- rename the `assets` dirs to `_assets` so we don't have to do these changes in the build

## Building local

### Node version

Docusaurus v3 requires Node 18

I use 8GB for Node, in Netlify I set the build command in the file `netlify.toml`
and locally I use:

```shell
NODE_OPTIONS=--max_old_space_size=8192
```

### Install Docusaurus

```shell
yarn install
```

### Build script

The script `_IGNORE/testbuild`

- pulls the Chinese and English docs for versions 3.1, 3.0, and 2.5
- Removes the intro page while we update it to use built-in nav components
- Removes the TOC while we migrate those to JSON format
- Runs an MDX checker
- Builds the site

```shell
./_IGNORE/testbuild`
```

Note: The dir is named `_IGNORE` because I had some markdown files that I needed to move to a dir that Docusaurus would leave out of the nav; it does not add files to the nav from dirs that start with an underscore.

## Serve the pages locally

```shell
yarn serve
```
