docs/sql-reference/sql-statements/data-manipulation/insert.md, before:

# INSERT

## Description

Inserts data into a specific table. For detailed information about the application scenarios, see [Load data with INSERT](../loading/InsertInto.md).

## Syntax

```Bash
INSERT INTO table_name
[ PARTITION (p1, ...) ]
[ WITH LABEL label]
[ (column_name [, ...]) ]
{ VALUES ( { expression | DEFAULT } [, ...] ) [, ...] | query }
```

## Parameters

| **Parameter** | Description                                                  |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| table_name    | The name of the table into which you want to load data. It can be specified with the database the table resides as `db_name.table_name`. |
| partitions    | The name of the target partition(s) to load data in. It must be set as partitions exist in the target table. If it is not specified, the data will be inserted into all partitions. Otherwise, the data will be inserted only into the specified partition(s). |
| label         | The unique identification label for each data load transaction within the database. If it is not specified, the system automatically generates one for the transaction. We recommend you specify the label for the transaction. Otherwise, you cannot check the transaction status if a connection error occurs and no result is returned. You can check the transaction status via `SHOW LOAD WHERE label="label"` statement. For limitations on naming a label, see [System Limits](../reference/System_limit.md). |
| column_name   | The name of the target column(s) to load data in. It must be set as columns exist in the target table. The order of columns specified in this property must match that of the data source, and the name of fields must match that of the target table. If no target column is specified, the default value is all columns in the target table. If the specified column in the source table does not exist in the target column, the default value will be written to this column, and the transaction will fail if the specified column does not have a default value. If the column type of the source table is inconsistent with that of the target table, the system will perform an implicit conversion on the mismatched column. If the conversion fails, a syntax parsing error will be returned. |
| expression    | Expression that assigns values to the column.                |
| DEFAULT       | Assigns default value to the column.                         |
| query         | Query statement whose result will be loaded into the target table. It can be any SQL statement supported by StarRocks. |

## Return

```Plain
Query OK, 5 rows affected, 2 warnings (0.05 sec)
{'label':'insert_load_test', 'status':'VISIBLE', 'txnId':'1008'}
```

| Return        | Description                                                  |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| rows affected | Indicates how many rows are loaded. `warnings` indicates the rows that are filtered out. |
| label         | The unique identification label for each data load transaction within the database. It can be assigned by user or automatically by the system. |
| status        | Indicates if the loaded data is visible. `VISIBLE`: the data is successfully loaded and visible. `COMMITTED`: the data is successfully loaded but invisible for now. |
| txnId         | The ID number corresponding to each INSERT transaction.      |

## Usage notes

- As for the current version, when StarRocks executes the INSERT INTO statement, if there is any row of data mismatches the target table format (for example, the string is too long), the INSERT transaction fails by default. You can set the session variable `enable_insert_strict` to `false` so that the system filters out the data that mismatches the target table format and continues to execute the transaction.

## Example

The following examples are based on table `test`, which contains two columns `c1` and `c2`. The `c2` column has a default value of DEFAULT.

- Import a row of data into the`test`table.

```SQL
INSERT INTO test VALUES (1, 2);
INSERT INTO test (c1, c2) VALUES (1, 2);
INSERT INTO test (c1, c2) VALUES (1, DEFAULT);
INSERT INTO test (c1) VALUES (1);
```

When no target column is specified, the columns are loaded in sequential order into the target table by default. Therefore, in the above example, the outcomes of the first and second SQL statements are the same.

If there is a target column with no data inserted or data inserted using DEFAULT as the value, the column will use the default value as the loaded data. Therefore, in the above example, the outcomes of the third and fourth statements are the same.

- Load multiple rows of data into the`test`table at one time.

```SQL
INSERT INTO test VALUES (1, 2), (3, 2 + 2);
INSERT INTO test (c1, c2) VALUES (1, 2), (3, 2 * 2);
INSERT INTO test (c1, c2) VALUES (1, DEFAULT), (3, DEFAULT);
INSERT INTO test (c1) VALUES (1), (3);
```

Because the results of expressions are equivalent, the outcomes of the first and second statements are the same. The outcomes of the third and fourth statements are the same because they both use default value.

- Import a query statement result into the `test` table.

```SQL
INSERT INTO test SELECT * FROM test2;
INSERT INTO test (c1, c2) SELECT * from test2;
```

- Import a query result into the `test` table, and specify partition and label.

```SQL
INSERT INTO test PARTITION(p1, p2) WITH LABEL `label1` SELECT * FROM test2;
INSERT INTO test WITH LABEL `label1` (c1, c2) SELECT * from test2;
```

Commit message:

[Doc] Add temporary partitions (#24553)
(cherry picked from commit 620865e4c4e6b643b0b963dab59a5099b243d06c)

# Conflicts:
#	docs/TOC.md
#	docs/sql-reference/sql-statements/data-manipulation/CREATE ROUTINE LOAD.md
#	docs/sql-reference/sql-statements/data-manipulation/insert.md

docs/sql-reference/sql-statements/data-manipulation/insert.md, after:

# INSERT

## Description

Inserts data into a specific table. For detailed information about the application scenarios, see [Load data with INSERT](../loading/InsertInto.md).

## Syntax

```Bash
<<<<<<< HEAD
INSERT INTO table_name
[ PARTITION (p1, ...) ]
=======
INSERT {INTO | OVERWRITE} table_name
[ PARTITION (<partition1_name>[, <partition2_name>, ...) ]
[ TEMPORARY_PARTITION (<temporary_partition1_name>[, <temporary_partition2_name>, ...) ]
>>>>>>> 620865e4c ([Doc] Add temporary partitions (#24553))
[ WITH LABEL label]
[ (column_name [, ...]) ]
{ VALUES ( { expression | DEFAULT } [, ...] ) [, ...] | query }
```

## Parameters

| **Parameter** | Description                                                  |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| table_name    | The name of the table into which you want to load data. It can be specified with the database the table resides as `db_name.table_name`. |
| PARTITION    |  The partitions into which you want to load the data. You can specify multiple partitions, which must be separated by commas (,). It must be set to partitions that exist in the target table. If you specify this parameter, the data will be inserted only into the specified partitions. If you do not specify this parameter, the data will be inserted into all partitions. |
| TEMPORARY_PARTITION|The name of the [temporary partition](../../../table_design/Temporary_partition.md) into which you want to load data. You can specify multiple temporary partitions, which must be separated by commas (,).|
| label         | The unique identification label for each data load transaction within the database. If it is not specified, the system automatically generates one for the transaction. We recommend you specify the label for the transaction. Otherwise, you cannot check the transaction status if a connection error occurs and no result is returned. You can check the transaction status via `SHOW LOAD WHERE label="label"` statement. For limitations on naming a label, see [System Limits](../reference/System_limit.md). |
| column_name   | The name of the target column(s) to load data in. It must be set as columns exist in the target table. The order of columns specified in this property must match that of the data source, and the name of fields must match that of the target table. If no target column is specified, the default value is all columns in the target table. If the specified column in the source table does not exist in the target column, the default value will be written to this column, and the transaction will fail if the specified column does not have a default value. If the column type of the source table is inconsistent with that of the target table, the system will perform an implicit conversion on the mismatched column. If the conversion fails, a syntax parsing error will be returned. |
| expression    | Expression that assigns values to the column.                |
| DEFAULT       | Assigns default value to the column.                         |
| query         | Query statement whose result will be loaded into the target table. It can be any SQL statement supported by StarRocks. |

## Return

```Plain
Query OK, 5 rows affected, 2 warnings (0.05 sec)
{'label':'insert_load_test', 'status':'VISIBLE', 'txnId':'1008'}
```

| Return        | Description                                                  |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| rows affected | Indicates how many rows are loaded. `warnings` indicates the rows that are filtered out. |
| label         | The unique identification label for each data load transaction within the database. It can be assigned by user or automatically by the system. |
| status        | Indicates if the loaded data is visible. `VISIBLE`: the data is successfully loaded and visible. `COMMITTED`: the data is successfully loaded but invisible for now. |
| txnId         | The ID number corresponding to each INSERT transaction.      |

## Usage notes

- As for the current version, when StarRocks executes the INSERT INTO statement, if there is any row of data mismatches the target table format (for example, the string is too long), the INSERT transaction fails by default. You can set the session variable `enable_insert_strict` to `false` so that the system filters out the data that mismatches the target table format and continues to execute the transaction.

## Example

The following examples are based on table `test`, which contains two columns `c1` and `c2`. The `c2` column has a default value of DEFAULT.

- Import a row of data into the`test`table.

```SQL
INSERT INTO test VALUES (1, 2);
INSERT INTO test (c1, c2) VALUES (1, 2);
INSERT INTO test (c1, c2) VALUES (1, DEFAULT);
INSERT INTO test (c1) VALUES (1);
```

When no target column is specified, the columns are loaded in sequential order into the target table by default. Therefore, in the above example, the outcomes of the first and second SQL statements are the same.

If there is a target column with no data inserted or data inserted using DEFAULT as the value, the column will use the default value as the loaded data. Therefore, in the above example, the outcomes of the third and fourth statements are the same.

- Load multiple rows of data into the`test`table at one time.

```SQL
INSERT INTO test VALUES (1, 2), (3, 2 + 2);
INSERT INTO test (c1, c2) VALUES (1, 2), (3, 2 * 2);
INSERT INTO test (c1, c2) VALUES (1, DEFAULT), (3, DEFAULT);
INSERT INTO test (c1) VALUES (1), (3);
```

Because the results of expressions are equivalent, the outcomes of the first and second statements are the same. The outcomes of the third and fourth statements are the same because they both use default value.

- Import a query statement result into the `test` table.

```SQL
INSERT INTO test SELECT * FROM test2;
INSERT INTO test (c1, c2) SELECT * from test2;
```

- Import a query result into the `test` table, and specify partition and label.

```SQL
INSERT INTO test PARTITION(p1, p2) WITH LABEL `label1` SELECT * FROM test2;
INSERT INTO test WITH LABEL `label1` (c1, c2) SELECT * from test2;
```
