docs/sql-reference/sql-statements/data-manipulation/REFRESH MATERIALIZED VIEW.md, before:

# REFRESH MATERIALIZED VIEW

## Description

Manually refresh a specific asynchronous materialized view or partitions within.

> **CAUTION**
>
> You can only manually refresh materialized views that adopt ASYNC or MANUAL refresh strategy. You can check the refresh strategy of an asynchronous materialized view using [SHOW MATERIALIZED VIEWS](../data-manipulation/SHOW%20MATERIALIZED%20VIEW.md).

## Syntax

```SQL
REFRESH MATERIALIZED VIEW [database.]mv_name
[PARTITION START ("<partition_start_date>") END ("<partition_end_date>")] [FORCE]
```

Parameters in brackets [] is optional.

## Parameters

| **Parameter**             | **Required** | **Description**                                        |
| ------------------------- | ------------ | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| mv_name                   | yes          | The name of the materialized view to refresh manually. |g
| PARTITION START () END () | no           | Manually refresh partitions within a certain time interval. |
| partition_start_date      | no           | The start date of the partitions to refresh manually.  |
| partition_end_date        | no           | The end date of the partitions to refresh manually.    |
| FORCE                     | no           | If you specify this parameter, StarRocks forcibly refreshes the corresponding materialized view or partitions. If you do not specify this parameter, StarRocks automatically judges if a partition is updated and refreshes the partition only when needed.  |

> **CAUTION**
>
>  When refreshing materialized views created based on the external catalogs, StarRocks refreshes all partitions in the materialized views.

## Examples

Example 1: Manually refresh a specific materialized view

```Plain
REFRESH MATERIALIZED VIEW lo_mv1;
```

Example 2: Manually refresh certain partitions of a specific materialized view

```Plain
REFRESH MATERIALIZED VIEW mv 
PARTITION START ("2020-02-01") END ("2020-03-01");
```

Commit message:

add refresh mv with sync mode doc
Signed-off-by: ABingHuang <codekhuang@163.com>

docs/sql-reference/sql-statements/data-manipulation/REFRESH MATERIALIZED VIEW.md, after:

# REFRESH MATERIALIZED VIEW

## Description

Manually refresh a specific asynchronous materialized view or partitions within.

> **CAUTION**
>
> You can only manually refresh materialized views that adopt ASYNC or MANUAL refresh strategy. You can check the refresh strategy of an asynchronous materialized view using [SHOW MATERIALIZED VIEWS](../data-manipulation/SHOW%20MATERIALIZED%20VIEW.md).

## Syntax

```SQL
REFRESH MATERIALIZED VIEW [database.]mv_name
[PARTITION START ("<partition_start_date>") END ("<partition_end_date>")] [FORCE] [WITH (SYNC | ASYNC) MODE]
```

Parameters in brackets [] is optional.

## Parameters

| **Parameter**             | **Required** | **Description**                                        |
| ------------------------- | ------------ | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| mv_name                   | yes          | The name of the materialized view to refresh manually. |g
| PARTITION START () END () | no           | Manually refresh partitions within a certain time interval. |
| partition_start_date      | no           | The start date of the partitions to refresh manually.  |
| partition_end_date        | no           | The end date of the partitions to refresh manually.    |
| FORCE                     | no           | If you specify this parameter, StarRocks forcibly refreshes the corresponding materialized view or partitions. If you do not specify this parameter, StarRocks automatically judges if a partition is updated and refreshes the partition only when needed.  |
| MODE                      | no           | If you specify 'with sync mode', the refresh statement will return after refresh finishes. If you specify 'with async mode', the refresh statement will return immediately, the refresh will run in the background. if not specified, the default mode is 'async' |

> **CAUTION**
>
>  When refreshing materialized views created based on the external catalogs, StarRocks refreshes all partitions in the materialized views.

## Examples

Example 1: Manually refresh a specific materialized view asynchronously

```Plain
REFRESH MATERIALIZED VIEW lo_mv1;

REFRESH MATERIALIZED VIEW lo_mv1 with async mode;
```

Example 2: Manually refresh certain partitions of a specific materialized view

```Plain
REFRESH MATERIALIZED VIEW mv 
PARTITION START ("2020-02-01") END ("2020-03-01");
```

Example 3: Manually refresh certain partitions of a specific materialized view by force

```Plain
REFRESH MATERIALIZED VIEW mv
PARTITION START ("2020-02-01") END ("2020-03-01") FORCE;
```

Example 4: Manually refresh a materialized view synchronously

```Plain
REFRESH MATERIALIZED VIEW lo_mv1 with sync mode;
```
