docs/en/sql-reference/sql-statements/data-manipulation/DROP_TASK.md, before:

---
displayed_sidebar: "English"
---

# DROP TASK

## Description

Drops an asynchronous ETL task submitted using [SUBMIT TASK](./SUBMIT_TASK.md). This feature has been supported since StarRocks v2.5.7.

> **NOTE**
>
> Dropping a task with DROP TASK simultaneously cancels the corresponding TaskRun.

## Syntax

```SQL
DROP TASK <task_name>
```

## Parameters

| **Parameter** | **Description**               |
| ------------- | ----------------------------- |
| task_name     | The name of the task to drop. |

## Usage notes

You can check the information of asynchronous tasks by querying the metadata views `tasks` and `task_runs` in Information Schema.

```SQL
SELECT * FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.tasks;
SELECT * FROM information_schema.tasks WHERE task_name = '<task_name>';
SELECT * FROM information_schema.task_runs;
SELECT * FROM information_schema.task_runs WHERE task_name = '<task_name>';
```

## Examples

```Plain
MySQL > SUBMIT /*+set_var(query_timeout=100000)*/ TASK ctas AS
    -> CREATE TABLE insert_wiki_edit_new
    -> AS SELECT * FROM source_wiki_edit;
+----------+-----------+
| TaskName | Status    |
+----------+-----------+
| ctas     | SUBMITTED |
+----------+-----------+
1 row in set (1.19 sec)

MySQL > DROP TASK ctas;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.35 sec)
```

Commit message:

[Doc] Wrap task name (#38199)
Signed-off-by: 絵空事スピリット <wanglichen@starrocks.com>
Signed-off-by: 戴鑫铉 <xinxuan.dai@mihoyo.com>

docs/en/sql-reference/sql-statements/data-manipulation/DROP_TASK.md, after:

---
displayed_sidebar: "English"
---

# DROP TASK

## Description

Drops an asynchronous ETL task submitted using [SUBMIT TASK](./SUBMIT_TASK.md). This feature has been supported since StarRocks v2.5.7.

> **NOTE**
>
> Dropping a task with DROP TASK simultaneously cancels the corresponding TaskRun.

## Syntax

```SQL
DROP TASK `<task_name>`
```

## Parameters

| **Parameter** | **Description**               |
| ------------- | ----------------------------- |
| task_name     | The name of the task to drop. Please wrap the task name with backticks (`) to prevent any parse failure. |

## Usage notes

You can check the information of asynchronous tasks by querying the metadata views `tasks` and `task_runs` in Information Schema.

```SQL
SELECT * FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.tasks;
SELECT * FROM information_schema.tasks WHERE task_name = '<task_name>';
SELECT * FROM information_schema.task_runs;
SELECT * FROM information_schema.task_runs WHERE task_name = '<task_name>';
```

## Examples

```Plain
MySQL > SUBMIT /*+set_var(query_timeout=100000)*/ TASK `ctas` AS
    -> CREATE TABLE insert_wiki_edit_new
    -> AS SELECT * FROM source_wiki_edit;
+----------+-----------+
| TaskName | Status    |
+----------+-----------+
| ctas     | SUBMITTED |
+----------+-----------+
1 row in set (1.19 sec)

MySQL > DROP TASK `ctas`;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.35 sec)
```
