community/membership.md, before:

﻿
| Role | Responsibilities | Requirements |
| -----| ---------------- | ------------ | 
| Contributor | Active participant in the community | Finish at least one contribution to the project in specific repos |
| Active Contributor | Active contributor in the community | Have 5 merged PRs or fixed major bugs| 
| Committer | Contributions acceptance approval| Have proven track record of contributions and lead major development. Must receive two PMC nominations and pass voting.| 
| PMC |Make and approve technical design decisions. Define milestones and releases. Elect new community members.| Highly experienced committer. Must receive two PMC nominations and pass voting.| 

**Note:** This document is a work in progress.
This doc outlines the various responsibilities of contributor roles in StarRocks.

## Contributor
Everyone who contributes can become a StarRocks contributor. The members will provide mentorship and guidance when new contributors need assistance.

### How to become a Contributor?
-   1 merged PR in the following repos: StarRocks, docs or flink-connector-starrocks

### As a Contributor, we expect you to：
-   Actively participate in StarRocks' project development
-   Participate in community events (meetups, hackathons, etc.)
-   Learn and help others learn StarRocks-related technologies

### Privileges:
-   Be listed as a StarRocks contributor
-   Be awarded a StarRocks Contributor e-certificate

## Active Contributor
Active contributors are contributors who have made outstanding contributions and sustained commitment to StarRocks. They actively participate in the community by contributing code, improving docs and helping others.

### How to become an Active Contributor?

-   Have 5 merged PRs or fixed major bugs
-   Participate in more than 5 code reviews
-   Actively participate in community events such as online/offline meetups and community discussions

### Responsibilities and privileges:

-   Join the community meeting and discussion
-   Mentor and guide new contributors
-   Be listed as a StarRocks Active Contributor and featured on the StarRocks official website
-   Be awarded a StarRocks Active Contributor e-certificate

## Committer

Committers are promoted from Active Contributors.

They have the authority to merge master branches and are responsible for the planning and maintenance of StarRocks. They also are active members in sharing their knowledge with the community.

### How to become a Committer?

-   Have a deep understanding of StarRocks' principles and future plans
-   Have the ability to deal with various issues that arise in the project promptly
-   Lead a major development, write and revise related documents
-   Receive at least two PMC nominations and pass voting

### Responsibilities and privileges:

-   Mentor and guide other memberships in the community
-   Ensure continued health of subproject
-   Be granted write access to StarRocks repos (to be specified)
-   Be listed as a StarRocks Committer and featured on the StarRocks official website
-   Be awarded a StarRocks Committer e-certificate

## PMC

PMCs are promoted from Committers. They have the authority to merge master branches and are responsible for the planning and maintenance of StarRocks. They also are active members in sharing their knowledge with the community.

### How to become a PMC?

-   In-depth understanding of StarRocks principles and a clear understanding of StarRocks' future plans
-   Have the ability to deal with project issues promptly
-   Lead project development and iterations, and steer the overall direction of the project
-   Receive at least two PMC nominations and pass voting

### Responsibilities and privileges:

-   Mentor and guide other memberships in the community
-   Ensure continued health of the project, such as code quality and test coverage
-   Make and approve technical design decisions
-   Define milestones and releases
-   Vote and promote new committers and PMCs
-   Be listed as a StarRocks PMC and featured on the StarRocks official website
-   Be awarded a StarRocks PMC e-certificate

Commit message:

Signed-off-by: Kate Shao <shaowanrou@starrocks.com>

community/membership.md, after:

﻿
| Role | Responsibilities | Requirements |
| -----| ---------------- | ------------ | 
| Contributor | Active participant in the community | Finish at least one contribution to the project in specific repos |
| Active Contributor | Active contributor in the community | Have 5 merged PRs or fixed major bugs| 
| Committer | Contributions acceptance approval| Have proven track record of contributions and lead major development. Nominees must be approved by a majority vote of the TSC voting members.| 
| Maintainer | A maintainer makes and approves technical design decisions. Define milestones and releases. Elect new community members.| Highly experienced committer. Nominees must be approved by a majority vote of the TSC voting members.| 

**Note:** This document is a work in progress.
This doc outlines the various responsibilities of contributor roles in StarRocks.

## Contributor
Everyone who contributes can become a StarRocks contributor. The members will provide mentorship and guidance when new contributors need assistance.

### How to become a Contributor?
-   1 merged PR (pull request) in StarRocks' repositories

### As a Contributor, we expect you to：
-   Actively participate in the development of the StarRocks project
-   Attend community events such as meetups and hackathons
-   Continuously learn about StarRocks-related technologies and share your knowledge with others

### Privileges:
-   Be recognized as a StarRocks Contributor


## Active Contributor
Active contributors are contributors who have made outstanding contributions and sustained commitment to StarRocks. They actively participate in the community by contributing code, improving docs and helping others.

### How to become an Active Contributor?

-   Have at least 5 merged PRs or have fixed major bugs
-   Participate in at least 5 code reviews
-   Actively engage with the community by attending online or offline meetups and participating in community discussions

### Responsibilities and privileges:

-   Join the community meeting and discussion
-   Mentor and guide new contributors
-   Be recognized as a StarRocks Active Contributor


## Committer

Committers are Contributors who have earned the ability to modify (“commit”) source code, documentation or other technical artifacts in a project’s repository. 

### How to become a Committer?

-   Have a deep understanding of StarRocks' principles and future plans
-   Have the ability to deal with various issues that arise in the project promptly
-   Lead at least one major development, write and revise related documents
-   A contributor may become a Committer by a majority approval of the voting members of the TSC as defined in the Technical Charter.

### Responsibilities and privileges:

-   Mentor and guide other members in the community
-   Ensure continued health of subproject
-   Be granted write access to StarRocks repos (to be specified)
-   Be recognized as a StarRocks Committer


## Maintainer

Maintainers are a subset of Committers with additional responsibilities for driving a project’s release and serving on the TSC. 

### How to become a PMC?

-   In-depth understanding of StarRocks principles and a clear understanding of StarRocks' future plans
-   Have the ability to deal with project issues promptly
-   Lead project development and iterations, and steer the overall direction of the project
-   A Committer may become a Maintainer by a majority approval of the existing Maintainers as defined in the Technical Charter.


### Responsibilities and privileges:

-   Mentor and guide other members in the community
-   Ensure continued health of the project, such as code quality and test coverage
-   Make and approve technical design decisions
-   Define milestones and releases
-   Vote and promote new TSC members (Committers and Maintainers)
-   Be recognized as a StarRocks Maintainer
