docs/en/sql-reference/sql-statements/data-definition/CREATE_RESOURCE.md, before:

---
displayed_sidebar: "English"
---

# CREATE RESOURCE

## Description

This statement is used to create resources. Only user root or admin can create resources. Currently, only Spark and Hive resources are supported. Other external resources may be added to StarRocks in the future, such as Spark/GPU for query, HDFS/S3 for external storage, and MapReduce for ETL.

Syntax:

```sql
CREATE [EXTERNAL] RESOURCE "resource_name"
PROPERTIES ("key"="value", ...)
```

Note:  

1. PROPERTIES specifies the resource type. Currently, only Spark and Hive are supported.
2. The PROPERTIES vary depending on the resource type. See examples for details.

## Examples

1. Create a Spark resource named spark0 in yarn Cluster mode.

    ```sql
    CREATE EXTERNAL RESOURCE "spark0"
    PROPERTIES
    (
        "type" = "spark",
        "spark.master" = "yarn",
        "spark.submit.deployMode" = "cluster",
        "spark.jars" = "xxx.jar,yyy.jar",
        "spark.files" = "/tmp/aaa,/tmp/bbb",
        "spark.executor.memory" = "1g",
        "spark.yarn.queue" = "queue0",
        "spark.hadoop.yarn.resourcemanager.address" = "127.0.0.1:9999",
        "spark.hadoop.fs.defaultFS" = "hdfs://127.0.0.1:10000",
        "working_dir" = "hdfs://127.0.0.1:10000/tmp/starrocks",
        "broker" = "broker0",
        "broker.username" = "user0",
        "broker.password" = "password0"
    );
    ```

    Parameters related to Spark are as follows:

    ```plain text
    1. spark.master: required. Currently, yarn and spark ://host:port. are supported. 
    2. spark.submit.deployMode: deployment mode of the Spark program is required. Support cluster and client.
    3. spark.hadoop.yarn.resourcemanager.address: required when master is yarn.
    4. spark.hadoop.fs.defaultFS: required when master is yarn.
    5. Other parameters are optional. Please refer to http://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/configuration.html
    ```

    If Spark is used for ETL, working_DIR and broker need to be specified. The instructions are as follows:

    ```plain text
    working_dir: Directory used by ETL. It is required when spark is used as ETL resource. For example: hdfs://host:port/tmp/starrocks.
    broker: Name of broker. It is required when spark is used as ETL resource and needs to be configured beforehand by using `ALTER SYSTEM ADD BROKER` command. 
    broker.property_key: It is the property information needed to be specified when broker reads the intermediate files created by ETL. 
    ```

2. Create a Hive resource named hive0.

    ```sql
    CREATE EXTERNAL RESOURCE "hive0"
    PROPERTIES
    (
        "type" = "hive",
        "hive.metastore.uris" = "thrift://10.10.44.98:9083"
    );
    ```

Commit message:

[Doc] Add link to naming conventions for CREATE xx SQL (#40448)
Signed-off-by: evelynzhaojie <everlyn.zhaojie@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: evelynzhaojie <everlyn.zhaojie@gmail.com

docs/en/sql-reference/sql-statements/data-definition/CREATE_RESOURCE.md, after:

---
displayed_sidebar: "English"
---

# CREATE RESOURCE

## Description

Creates resources. The following types of resources can be created: Apache Spark™, Apache Hive™, Apache Iceberg, Apache Hudi, and JDBC. Spark resources are used in [Spark Load](../../../loading/SparkLoad.md) to manage loading information, such as YARN configurations, storage path of intermediate data, and Broker configurations. Hive, Iceberg, Hudi, and JDBC resources are used for managing data source access information involved in querying [External tables](../../../data_source/External_table.md).

:::tip

- Only users with the SYSTEM-level CREATE RESOURCE privilege can perform this operation.
- You can create JDBC resources only in StarRocks v2.3 and later.

:::

## Syntax

```sql
CREATE [EXTERNAL] RESOURCE "resource_name"
PROPERTIES ("key"="value", ...)
```

## Parameters

- `resource_name`: the name of the resource to create. For the naming conventions, see [System limits](../../../reference/System_limit.md).

- `PROPERTIES`: specifies the properties of the resource type. The PROPERTIES vary depending on the resource type. See Examples for details.

## Examples

1. Create a Spark resource named spark0 in yarn Cluster mode.

    ```sql
    CREATE EXTERNAL RESOURCE "spark0"
    PROPERTIES
    (
        "type" = "spark",
        "spark.master" = "yarn",
        "spark.submit.deployMode" = "cluster",
        "spark.jars" = "xxx.jar,yyy.jar",
        "spark.files" = "/tmp/aaa,/tmp/bbb",
        "spark.executor.memory" = "1g",
        "spark.yarn.queue" = "queue0",
        "spark.hadoop.yarn.resourcemanager.address" = "127.0.0.1:9999",
        "spark.hadoop.fs.defaultFS" = "hdfs://127.0.0.1:10000",
        "working_dir" = "hdfs://127.0.0.1:10000/tmp/starrocks",
        "broker" = "broker0",
        "broker.username" = "user0",
        "broker.password" = "password0"
    );
    ```

    Parameters related to Spark are as follows:

    ```plain text
    1. spark.master: required. Currently, yarn and spark ://host:port. are supported. 
    2. spark.submit.deployMode: deployment mode of the Spark program is required. Support cluster and client.
    3. spark.hadoop.yarn.resourcemanager.address: required when master is yarn.
    4. spark.hadoop.fs.defaultFS: required when master is yarn.
    5. Other parameters are optional. Please refer to http://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/configuration.html
    ```

    If Spark is used for ETL, working_DIR and broker need to be specified. The instructions are as follows:

    ```plain text
    working_dir: Directory used by ETL. It is required when spark is used as ETL resource. For example: hdfs://host:port/tmp/starrocks.
    broker: Name of broker. It is required when spark is used as ETL resource and needs to be configured beforehand by using `ALTER SYSTEM ADD BROKER` command. 
    broker.property_key: It is the property information needed to be specified when broker reads the intermediate files created by ETL. 
    ```

2. Create a Hive resource named hive0.

    ```sql
    CREATE EXTERNAL RESOURCE "hive0"
    PROPERTIES
    (
        "type" = "hive",
        "hive.metastore.uris" = "thrift://10.10.44.98:9083"
    );
    ```
