docs/sql-reference/sql-statements/data-definition/show-functions.md, before:

# SHOW FUNCTIONS

## Description

### Syntax

```sql
SHOW [FULL] [BUILTIN] FUNCTIONS [IN|FROM db] [LIKE 'function_pattern']
```

### Parameters

```plain text
full:It indicates to show the details of function. 

builtin:It indicates the functions that the system provides.

db: The name of the database to query.

function_pattern`: The parameter used to filter function name. 
```

Look at all the custom(builtin) functions under the database. If the user specifies the database, then look at the corresponding database. Otherwise directly query the database where the current session is located.  `SHOW` permission for this database is required.

## Examples

```Plain Text
mysql> show full functions in testDb\G
*************************** 1. row ***************************
        Signature: my_add(INT,INT)
      Return Type: INT
    Function Type: Scalar
Intermediate Type: NULL
       Properties: {"symbol":"_ZN9starrocks_udf6AddUdfEPNS_15FunctionContextERKNS_6IntValES4_","object_file":"http://host:port/libudfsample.so","md5":"cfe7a362d10f3aaf6c49974ee0f1f878"}
*************************** 2. row ***************************
        Signature: my_count(BIGINT)
      Return Type: BIGINT
    Function Type: Aggregate
Intermediate Type: NULL
       Properties: {"object_file":"http://host:port/libudasample.so","finalize_fn":"_ZN9starrocks_udf13CountFinalizeEPNS_15FunctionContextERKNS_9BigIntValE","init_fn":"_ZN9starrocks_udf9CountInitEPNS_15FunctionContextEPNS_9BigIntValE","merge_fn":"_ZN9starrocks_udf10CountMergeEPNS_15FunctionContextERKNS_9BigIntValEPS2_","md5":"37d185f80f95569e2676da3d5b5b9d2f","update_fn":"_ZN9starrocks_udf11CountUpdateEPNS_15FunctionContextERKNS_6IntValEPNS_9BigIntValE"}

2 rows in set (0.00 sec)
mysql> show builtin functions in testDb like 'year%';
+---------------+
| Function Name |
+---------------+
| year          |
| years_add     |
| years_diff    |
| years_sub     |
+---------------+
2 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

Commit message:

[Doc] fix spelling in docs (#23500)
Signed-off-by: evelynzhaojie <everlyn.zhaojie@gmail.com>
(cherry picked from commit ee1c084d4ef3d92a5cc1e2d8ff8c343932046733)

# Conflicts:
#	docs/TOC.md
#	docs/faq/Dump_query.md
#	docs/sql-reference/sql-statements/Administration/ALTER SYSTEM.md
#	docs/sql-reference/sql-statements/auto_increment.md
#	docs/sql-reference/sql-statements/data-manipulation/SHOW MATERIALIZED VIEW.md
#	docs/table_design/automatic_partitioning.md
#	docs/table_design/table_types/primary_key_table.md

docs/sql-reference/sql-statements/data-definition/show-functions.md, after:

# SHOW FUNCTIONS

## Description

Queries all the custom (or built-in) functions under a database. If no database is specified, the current database is used by default.

## Syntax

```sql
SHOW [FULL] [BUILTIN] FUNCTIONS [IN|FROM db] [LIKE 'function_pattern']
```

## Parameters

```plain text
full: indicates showing all the functions. 

builtin: indicates showing functions provided by the system.

db: the name of the database to query.

function_pattern: the pattern used to filter function name. 
```

## Examples

```Plain Text
mysql> show full functions in testDb\G
*************************** 1. row ***************************
        Signature: my_add(INT,INT)
      Return Type: INT
    Function Type: Scalar
Intermediate Type: NULL
       Properties: {"symbol":"_ZN9starrocks_udf6AddUdfEPNS_15FunctionContextERKNS_6IntValES4_","object_file":"http://host:port/libudfsample.so","md5":"cfe7a362d10f3aaf6c49974ee0f1f878"}
*************************** 2. row ***************************
        Signature: my_count(BIGINT)
      Return Type: BIGINT
    Function Type: Aggregate
Intermediate Type: NULL
       Properties: {"object_file":"http://host:port/libudasample.so","finalize_fn":"_ZN9starrocks_udf13CountFinalizeEPNS_15FunctionContextERKNS_9BigIntValE","init_fn":"_ZN9starrocks_udf9CountInitEPNS_15FunctionContextEPNS_9BigIntValE","merge_fn":"_ZN9starrocks_udf10CountMergeEPNS_15FunctionContextERKNS_9BigIntValEPS2_","md5":"37d185f80f95569e2676da3d5b5b9d2f","update_fn":"_ZN9starrocks_udf11CountUpdateEPNS_15FunctionContextERKNS_6IntValEPNS_9BigIntValE"}

2 rows in set (0.00 sec)
mysql> show builtin functions in testDb like 'year%';
+---------------+
| Function Name |
+---------------+
| year          |
| years_add     |
| years_diff    |
| years_sub     |
+---------------+
2 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```
