docs/data_source/catalog/iceberg_catalog.md, before:

# Iceberg catalog

An Iceberg catalog is a kind of external catalog that enables you to query data from Apache Iceberg without ingestion.

Also, you can directly transform and load data from Iceberg by using [INSERT INTO](../../../docs/sql-reference/sql-statements/data-manipulation/insert.md) based on Iceberg catalogs. StarRocks supports Iceberg catalogs from v2.4 onwards.

To ensure successful SQL workloads on your Iceberg cluster, your StarRocks cluster needs to integrate with two important components:

- Object storage or distributed file system like AWS S3 or HDFS
- Metastore like Hive metastore or AWS Glue

## Usage notes

- The file formats of Iceberg that StarRocks supports are Parquet and ORC:

  - Parquet files support the following compression formats: SNAPPY, LZ4, ZSTD, GZIP, and NO_COMPRESSION.
  - ORC files support the following compression formats: ZLIB, SNAPPY, LZO, LZ4, ZSTD, and NO_COMPRESSION.

- Iceberg catalogs do not support Iceberg v2 tables.

## Integration preparations

Before you create an Iceberg catalog, make sure your StarRocks cluster can integrate with the storage system and metastore of your Iceberg cluster.

### AWS IAM

If your Iceberg cluster uses AWS S3 as storage or AWS Glue as metastore, choose your suitable authentication method and make the required preparations to ensure that your StarRocks cluster can access the related AWS cloud resources.

The following authentication methods are recommended:

- Instance profile
- Assumed role
- IAM user

Of the above-mentioned three authentication methods, instance profile is the most widely used.

For more information, see [Preparation for authentication in AWS IAM](../../integrations/authenticate_to_aws_resources.md#preparation-for-authentication-in-aws-iam).

### HDFS

If you choose HDFS as storage, configure your StarRocks cluster as follows:

- (Optional) Set the username that is used to access your HDFS cluster and Hive metastore. By default, StarRocks uses the username of the FE and BE processes to access your HDFS cluster and Hive metastore. You can also set the username by using the `HADOOP_USERNAME` parameter in the **fe/conf/hadoop_env.sh** file of each FE and the **be/conf/hadoop_env.sh** file of each BE. After you set the username in these files, restart each FE and each BE to make the parameter settings take effect. You can set only one username for each StarRocks cluster.
- When you query Iceberg data, the FEs and BEs of your StarRocks cluster use the HDFS client to access your HDFS cluster. In most cases, you do not need to configure your StarRocks cluster to achieve that purpose, and StarRocks starts the HDFS client using the default configurations. You need to configure your StarRocks cluster only in the following situations:

  - High availability (HA) is enabled for your HDFS cluster: Add the **hdfs-site.xml** file of your HDFS cluster to the **$FE_HOME/conf** path of each FE and to the **$BE_HOME/conf** path of each BE.
  - View File System (ViewFs) is enabled for your HDFS cluster: Add the **core-site.xml** file of your HDFS cluster to the **$FE_HOME/conf** path of each FE and to the **$BE_HOME/conf** path of each BE.

> **NOTE**
>
> If an error indicating an unknown host is returned when you send a query, you must add the mapping between the host names and IP addresses of your HDFS cluster nodes to the **/etc/hosts** path.

### Kerberos authentication

If Kerberos authentication is enabled for your HDFS cluster or Hive metastore, configure your StarRocks cluster as follows:

- Run the `kinit -kt keytab_path principal` command on each FE and each BE to obtain Ticket Granting Ticket (TGT) from Key Distribution Center (KDC). To run this command, you must have the permissions to access your HDFS cluster and Hive metastore. Note that accessing KDC with this command is time-sensitive. Therefore, you need to use cron to run this command periodically.
- Add `JAVA_OPTS="-Djava.security.krb5.conf=/etc/krb5.conf"` to the **$FE_HOME/conf/fe.conf** file of each FE and to the **$BE_HOME/conf/be.conf** file of each BE. In this example, `/etc/krb5.conf` is the save path of the **krb5.conf** file. You can modify the path based on your needs.

## Create an Iceberg catalog

### Syntax

```SQL
CREATE EXTERNAL CATALOG <catalog_name>
[COMMENT <comment>]
PROPERTIES
(
    "type" = "iceberg",
    MetastoreParams,
    StorageCredentialParams
)
```

### Parameters

#### catalog_name

The name of the Iceberg catalog. The naming conventions are as follows:

- The name can contain letters, digits 0 through 9, and underscores (_) and must start with a letter.
- The name cannot exceed 64 characters in length.

#### comment

The description of the Iceberg catalog. This parameter is optional.

#### type

The type of your data source. Set the value to `iceberg`.

#### MetastoreParams

A set of parameters about how StarRocks integrates with the metastore of your data source.

##### Hive metastore

If you choose Hive metastore as the metastore of your data source, configure `MetastoreParams` as follows:

```SQL
"iceberg.catalog.hive.metastore.uris" = "<hive_metastore_uri>"
```

> **NOTE**
>
> Before querying Iceberg data, you must add the mapping between the host names and IP addresses of your Hive metastore nodes to the `/etc/hosts` path. Otherwise, StarRocks may fail to access your Hive metastore when you start a query.

The following table describes the parameter you need to configure in `MetastoreParams`.

| Parameter                           | Required | Description                                                  |
| ----------------------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| hive.metastore.uris                 | Yes      | The URI of your Hive metastore. Format: `thrift://<metastore_IP_address>:<metastore_port>`.<br>If high availability (HA) is enabled for your Hive metastore, you can specify multiple metastore URIs and separate them with commas (`,`), for example, `"thrift://<metastore_IP_address_1>:<metastore_port_1>,thrift://<metastore_IP_address_2>:<metastore_port_2>,thrift://<metastore_IP_address_3>:<metastore_port_3>"`. |

##### AWS Glue

If you choose AWS Glue as the metastore of your data source, take one of the following actions:

- To choose the instance profile-based authentication method, configure `MetastoreParams` as follows:

  ```SQL
  "hive.metastore.type" = "glue",
  "aws.glue.use_instance_profile" = "true",
  "aws.glue.region" = "<aws_glue_region>"
  ```

- To choose the assumed role-based authentication method, configure `MetastoreParams` as follows:

  ```SQL
  "hive.metastore.type" = "glue",
  "aws.glue.use_instance_profile" = "true",
  "aws.glue.iam_role_arn" = "<iam_role_arn>",
  "aws.glue.region" = "<aws_glue_region>"
  ```

- To choose the IAM user-based authentication method, configure `MetastoreParams` as follows:

  ```SQL
  "aws.glue.use_instance_profile" = "false",
  "aws.glue.access_key" = "<iam_user_access_key>",
  "aws.glue.secret_key" = "<iam_user_secret_key>",
  "aws.glue.region" = "<aws_s3_region>"
  ```

The following table describes the parameters you need to configure in `MetastoreParams`.

| Parameter                     | Required | Description                                                  |
| ----------------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| hive.metastore.type           | Yes      | The type of metastore that you use for your Iceberg cluster. Set the value to `glue`. |
| aws.glue.use_instance_profile | Yes      | Specifies whether to enable the instance profile-based authentication method and the assumed role-based authentication method. Valid values: `true` and `false`. Default value: `false`. |
| aws.glue.iam_role_arn         | No       | The ARN of the IAM role that has privileges on your AWS Glue Data Catalog. If you use the assumed role-based authentication method to access AWS Glue, you must specify this parameter. |
| aws.glue.region               | Yes      | The region in which your AWS Glue Data Catalog resides. Example: `us-west-1`. |
| aws.glue.access_key           | No       | The access key of your AWS IAM user. If you use the IAM user-based authentication method to access AWS Glue, you must specify this parameter. |
| aws.glue.secret_key           | No       | The secret key of your AWS IAM user. If you use the IAM user-based authentication method to access AWS Glue, you must specify this parameter. |

For information about how to choose an authentication method for accessing AWS Glue and how to configure an access control policy in the AWS IAM Console, see [Authentication parameters for accessing AWS Glue](../../integrations/authenticate_to_aws_resources.md#authentication-parameters-for-accessing-aws-glue).

##### Custom metadata service

If you use a custom metadata service for your Iceberg cluster, you need to create a custom catalog class (the class name of the custom catalog cannot be the same as the name of any class that already exists in StarRocks) and implement the related interface in StarRocks so that StarRocks can access the custom metadata service. The custom catalog class needs to inherit the abstract class `BaseMetastoreCatalog`. After the custom catalog is created, package the catalog and its related files, place them under the **fe/lib** path of each FE, and then restart each FE.

After you complete the preceding operations, you can create an Iceberg catalog and configure its properties.

| **Property**           | **Required** | **Description**                                              |
| ---------------------- | ------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| type                   | Yes          | The type of the data source. Set the value to `iceberg`.      |
| iceberg.catalog.type   | Yes          | The type of the catalog configured your Iceberg cluster. Set the value to `CUSTOM`. |
| iceberg.catalog-impl   | Yes          | The fully qualified class name of the custom catalog. FEs search for the catalog based on this name. If the custom catalog contains custom configuration items, you must add them to the `PROPERTIES` parameter as key-value pairs when you create an Iceberg catalog. |

#### `StorageCredentialParams`

A set of parameters about how StarRocks integrates with your storage system. This parameter set is optional.

You need to configure `StorageCredentialParams` only when your Iceberg cluster uses AWS S3 as storage.

If your Iceberg cluster uses any other storage system, you can ignore `StorageCredentialParams`.

##### AWS S3

If you choose AWS S3 as storage for your Iceberg cluster, take one of the following actions:

- To choose the instance profile-based authentication method, configure `StorageCredentialParams` as follows:

  ```SQL
  "aws.s3.use_instance_profile" = "true",
  "aws.s3.region" = "<aws_s3_region>"
  ```

- To choose the assumed role-based authentication method, configure `StorageCredentialParams` as follows:

  ```SQL
  "aws.s3.use_instance_profile" = "true",
  "aws.s3.iam_role_arn" = "<iam_role_arn>",
  "aws.s3.region" = "<aws_s3_region>"
  ```

- To choose the IAM user-based authentication method, configure `StorageCredentialParams` as follows:

  ```SQL
  "aws.s3.use_instance_profile" = "false",
  "aws.s3.access_key" = "<iam_user_access_key>",
  "aws.s3.secret_key" = "<iam_user_secret_key>",
  "aws.s3.region" = "<aws_s3_region>"
  ```

The following table describes the parameters you need to configure in `StorageCredentialParams`.

| Parameter                   | Required | Description                                                  |
| --------------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| aws.s3.use_instance_profile | Yes      | Specifies whether to enable the instance profile-based authentication method and the assumed role-based authentication method. Valid values: `true` and `false`. Default value: `false`. |
| aws.s3.iam_role_arn         | No       | The ARN of the IAM role that has privileges on your AWS S3 bucket. If you use the assumed role-based authentication method to access AWS S3, you must specify this parameter. |
| aws.s3.region               | Yes      | The region in which your AWS S3 bucket resides. Example: `us-west-1`. |
| aws.s3.access_key           | No       | The access key of your IAM user. If you use the IAM user-based authentication method to access AWS S3, you must specify this parameter. |
| aws.s3.secret_key           | No       | The secret key of your IAM user. If you use the IAM user-based authentication method to access AWS S3, you must specify this parameter. |

For information about how to choose an authentication method for accessing AWS S3 and how to configure an access control policy in AWS IAM Console, see [Authentication parameters for accessing AWS S3](../../integrations/authenticate_to_aws_resources.md#authentication-parameters-for-accessing-aws-s3).

##### S3-compatible storage system

If you choose an S3-compatible storage system, such as MinIO, as storage for your Iceberg cluster, configure `StorageCredentialParams` as follows to ensure a successful integration:

```SQL
"aws.s3.enable_ssl" = "{true | false}",
"aws.s3.enable_path_style_access" = "{true | false}",
"aws.s3.endpoint" = "<s3_endpoint>",
"aws.s3.access_key" = "<iam_user_access_key>",
"aws.s3.secret_key" = "<iam_user_secret_key>"
```

The following table describes the parameters you need to configure in `StorageCredentialParams`.

| Parameter                        | Required | Description                                                  |
| -------------------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| aws.s3.enable_ssl                | Yes      | Specifies whether to enable SSL connection.<br>Valid values: `true` and `false`. Default value: `true`. |
| aws.s3.enable_path_style_access  | Yes      | Specifies whether to enable path-style access.<br>Valid values: `true` and `false`. Default value: `false`.<br>Path-style URLs use the following format: `https://s3.<region_code>.amazonaws.com/<bucket_name>/<key_name>`. For example, if you create a bucket named `DOC-EXAMPLE-BUCKET1` in the US West (Oregon) Region, and you want to access the `alice.jpg` object in that bucket, you can use the following path-style URL: `https://s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/DOC-EXAMPLE-BUCKET1/alice.jpg`. |
| aws.s3.endpoint                  | Yes      | The endpoint that is used to connect to your S3-compatible storage system instead of AWS S3. |
| aws.s3.access_key                | Yes      | The access key of your IAM user. |
| aws.s3.secret_key                | Yes      | The secret key of your IAM user. |

### Examples

The following examples create an Iceberg catalog named `iceberg_catalog_hms` or `iceberg_catalog_glue`, depending on the type of metastore you use, to query data from your Iceberg cluster.

#### If you choose instance profile-based credential

- If you use Hive metastore in your Iceberg cluster, run a command like below:

  ```SQL
  CREATE EXTERNAL CATALOG iceberg_catalog_hms
  PROPERTIES
  (
      "type" = "iceberg",
      "aws.s3.use_instance_profile" = "true",
      "aws.s3.region" = "us-west-2",
      "iceberg.catalog.hive.metastore.uris" = "thrift://xx.xx.xx:9083"
  );
  ```

- If you use AWS Glue in your Amazon EMR Iceberg cluster, run a command like below:

  ```SQL
  CREATE EXTERNAL CATALOG iceberg_catalog_glue
  PROPERTIES
  (
      "type" = "iceberg",
      "aws.s3.use_instance_profile" = "true",
      "aws.s3.region" = "us-west-2",
      "hive.metastore.type" = "glue",
      "aws.glue.use_instance_profile" = "true",
      "aws.glue.region" = "us-west-2"
  );
  ```

#### If you choose assumed role-based credential

- If you use Hive metastore in your HIceberg cluster, run a command like below:

  ```SQL
  CREATE EXTERNAL CATALOG iceberg_catalog_hms
  PROPERTIES
  (
      "type" = "iceberg",
      "aws.s3.use_instance_profile" = "true",
      "aws.s3.iam_role_arn" = "arn:aws:iam::081976408565:role/test_s3_role",
      "aws.s3.region" = "us-west-2",
      "iceberg.catalog.hive.metastore.uris" = "thrift://xx.xx.xx:9083"
  );
  ```

- If you use AWS Glue in your Amazon EMR Iceberg cluster, run a command like below:

  ```SQL
  CREATE EXTERNAL CATALOG iceberg_catalog_glue
  PROPERTIES
  (
      "type" = "iceberg",
      "aws.s3.use_instance_profile" = "true",
      "aws.s3.iam_role_arn" = "arn:aws:iam::081976408565:role/test_s3_role",
      "aws.s3.region" = "us-west-2",
      "hive.metastore.type" = "glue",
      "aws.glue.use_instance_profile" = "true",
      "aws.glue.iam_role_arn" = "arn:aws:iam::081976408565:role/test_glue_role",
      "aws.glue.region" = "us-west-2"
  );
  ```

#### If you choose IAM user-based credential

- If you use Hive metastore in your Iceberg cluster, run a command like below:

  ```SQL
  CREATE EXTERNAL CATALOG iceberg_catalog_hms
  PROPERTIES
  (
      "type" = "iceberg",
      "aws.s3.use_instance_profile" = "false",
      "aws.s3.access_key" = "<iam_user_access_key>",
      "aws.s3.secret_key" = "<iam_user_access_key>",
      "aws.s3.region" = "us-west-2",
      "iceberg.catalog.hive.metastore.uris" = "thrift://xx.xx.xx:9083"
  );
  ```

- If you use AWS Glue in your Amazon EMR Iceberg cluster, run a command like below:

  ```SQL
  CREATE EXTERNAL CATALOG iceberg_catalog_glue
  PROPERTIES
  (
      "type" = "iceberg",
      "aws.s3.use_instance_profile" = "false",
      "aws.s3.access_key" = "<iam_user_access_key>",
      "aws.s3.secret_key" = "<iam_user_secret_key>",
      "aws.s3.region" = "us-west-2",
      "hive.metastore.type" = "glue",
      "aws.glue.use_instance_profile" = "false",
      "aws.glue.access_key" = "<iam_user_access_key>",
      "aws.glue.secret_key" = "<iam_user_secret_key>",
      "aws.glue.region" = "us-west-2"
  );
  ```

## View the schema of an Iceberg table

You can use one of the following syntaxes to view the schema of an Iceberg table:

- View schema

  ```SQL
  DESC[RIBE] <catalog_name>.<database_name>.<table_name>
  ```

- View schema and location from the CREATE statement

  ```SQL
  SHOW CREATE TABLE <catalog_name>.<database_name>.<table_name>
  ```

## Query an Iceberg table

1. Use the following syntax to view the databases in your Iceberg cluster:

   ```SQL
   SHOW DATABASES FROM <catalog_name>
   ```

2. Use the following syntax to connect to your target Iceberg database:

   ```SQL
   USE <catalog_name>.<database_name>
   ```

3. Use the following syntax to query the Iceberg table:

   ```SQL
   SELECT count(*) FROM <table_name> LIMIT 10
   ```

## Load data from Iceberg

Suppose you have an OLAP table named `olap_tbl`, you can transform and load data like below:

```SQL
INSERT INTO default_catalog.olap_db.olap_tbl SELECT * FROM iceberg_table
```

Commit message:

[Doc] update type values in catalog docs for Branch 2.5 (#23754)

docs/data_source/catalog/iceberg_catalog.md, after:

# Iceberg catalog

An Iceberg catalog is a kind of external catalog that enables you to query data from Apache Iceberg without ingestion.

Also, you can directly transform and load data from Iceberg by using [INSERT INTO](../../../docs/sql-reference/sql-statements/data-manipulation/insert.md) based on Iceberg catalogs. StarRocks supports Iceberg catalogs from v2.4 onwards.

To ensure successful SQL workloads on your Iceberg cluster, your StarRocks cluster needs to integrate with two important components:

- Object storage or distributed file system like AWS S3 or HDFS
- Metastore like Hive metastore or AWS Glue

## Usage notes

- The file formats of Iceberg that StarRocks supports are Parquet and ORC:

  - Parquet files support the following compression formats: SNAPPY, LZ4, ZSTD, GZIP, and NO_COMPRESSION.
  - ORC files support the following compression formats: ZLIB, SNAPPY, LZO, LZ4, ZSTD, and NO_COMPRESSION.

- Iceberg catalogs do not support Iceberg v2 tables.

## Integration preparations

Before you create an Iceberg catalog, make sure your StarRocks cluster can integrate with the storage system and metastore of your Iceberg cluster.

### AWS IAM

If your Iceberg cluster uses AWS S3 as storage or AWS Glue as metastore, choose your suitable authentication method and make the required preparations to ensure that your StarRocks cluster can access the related AWS cloud resources.

The following authentication methods are recommended:

- Instance profile
- Assumed role
- IAM user

Of the above-mentioned three authentication methods, instance profile is the most widely used.

For more information, see [Preparation for authentication in AWS IAM](../../integrations/authenticate_to_aws_resources.md#preparation-for-authentication-in-aws-iam).

### HDFS

If you choose HDFS as storage, configure your StarRocks cluster as follows:

- (Optional) Set the username that is used to access your HDFS cluster and Hive metastore. By default, StarRocks uses the username of the FE and BE processes to access your HDFS cluster and Hive metastore. You can also set the username by using the `HADOOP_USERNAME` parameter in the **fe/conf/hadoop_env.sh** file of each FE and the **be/conf/hadoop_env.sh** file of each BE. After you set the username in these files, restart each FE and each BE to make the parameter settings take effect. You can set only one username for each StarRocks cluster.
- When you query Iceberg data, the FEs and BEs of your StarRocks cluster use the HDFS client to access your HDFS cluster. In most cases, you do not need to configure your StarRocks cluster to achieve that purpose, and StarRocks starts the HDFS client using the default configurations. You need to configure your StarRocks cluster only in the following situations:

  - High availability (HA) is enabled for your HDFS cluster: Add the **hdfs-site.xml** file of your HDFS cluster to the **$FE_HOME/conf** path of each FE and to the **$BE_HOME/conf** path of each BE.
  - View File System (ViewFs) is enabled for your HDFS cluster: Add the **core-site.xml** file of your HDFS cluster to the **$FE_HOME/conf** path of each FE and to the **$BE_HOME/conf** path of each BE.

> **NOTE**
>
> If an error indicating an unknown host is returned when you send a query, you must add the mapping between the host names and IP addresses of your HDFS cluster nodes to the **/etc/hosts** path.

### Kerberos authentication

If Kerberos authentication is enabled for your HDFS cluster or Hive metastore, configure your StarRocks cluster as follows:

- Run the `kinit -kt keytab_path principal` command on each FE and each BE to obtain Ticket Granting Ticket (TGT) from Key Distribution Center (KDC). To run this command, you must have the permissions to access your HDFS cluster and Hive metastore. Note that accessing KDC with this command is time-sensitive. Therefore, you need to use cron to run this command periodically.
- Add `JAVA_OPTS="-Djava.security.krb5.conf=/etc/krb5.conf"` to the **$FE_HOME/conf/fe.conf** file of each FE and to the **$BE_HOME/conf/be.conf** file of each BE. In this example, `/etc/krb5.conf` is the save path of the **krb5.conf** file. You can modify the path based on your needs.

## Create an Iceberg catalog

### Syntax

```SQL
CREATE EXTERNAL CATALOG <catalog_name>
[COMMENT <comment>]
PROPERTIES
(
    "type" = "iceberg",
    MetastoreParams,
    StorageCredentialParams
)
```

### Parameters

#### catalog_name

The name of the Iceberg catalog. The naming conventions are as follows:

- The name can contain letters, digits 0 through 9, and underscores (_) and must start with a letter.
- The name cannot exceed 64 characters in length.

#### comment

The description of the Iceberg catalog. This parameter is optional.

#### type

The type of your data source. Set the value to `iceberg`.

#### MetastoreParams

A set of parameters about how StarRocks integrates with the metastore of your data source.

##### Hive metastore

If you choose Hive metastore as the metastore of your data source, configure `MetastoreParams` as follows:

```SQL
"iceberg.catalog.hive.metastore.uris" = "<hive_metastore_uri>"
```

> **NOTE**
>
> Before querying Iceberg data, you must add the mapping between the host names and IP addresses of your Hive metastore nodes to the `/etc/hosts` path. Otherwise, StarRocks may fail to access your Hive metastore when you start a query.

The following table describes the parameter you need to configure in `MetastoreParams`.

| Parameter                           | Required | Description                                                  |
| ----------------------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| iceberg.catalog.hive.metastore.uris                 | Yes      | The URI of your Hive metastore. Format: `thrift://<metastore_IP_address>:<metastore_port>`.<br>If high availability (HA) is enabled for your Hive metastore, you can specify multiple metastore URIs and separate them with commas (`,`), for example, `"thrift://<metastore_IP_address_1>:<metastore_port_1>,thrift://<metastore_IP_address_2>:<metastore_port_2>,thrift://<metastore_IP_address_3>:<metastore_port_3>"`. |

##### AWS Glue

If you choose AWS Glue as the metastore of your data source, take one of the following actions:

- To choose the instance profile-based authentication method, configure `MetastoreParams` as follows:

  ```SQL
  "hive.metastore.type" = "glue",
  "aws.glue.use_instance_profile" = "true",
  "aws.glue.region" = "<aws_glue_region>"
  ```

- To choose the assumed role-based authentication method, configure `MetastoreParams` as follows:

  ```SQL
  "hive.metastore.type" = "glue",
  "aws.glue.use_instance_profile" = "true",
  "aws.glue.iam_role_arn" = "<iam_role_arn>",
  "aws.glue.region" = "<aws_glue_region>"
  ```

- To choose the IAM user-based authentication method, configure `MetastoreParams` as follows:

  ```SQL
  "aws.glue.use_instance_profile" = "false",
  "aws.glue.access_key" = "<iam_user_access_key>",
  "aws.glue.secret_key" = "<iam_user_secret_key>",
  "aws.glue.region" = "<aws_s3_region>"
  ```

The following table describes the parameters you need to configure in `MetastoreParams`.

| Parameter                     | Required | Description                                                  |
| ----------------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| hive.metastore.type           | Yes      | The type of metastore that you use for your Iceberg cluster. Set the value to `glue`. |
| aws.glue.use_instance_profile | Yes      | Specifies whether to enable the instance profile-based authentication method and the assumed role-based authentication method. Valid values: `true` and `false`. Default value: `false`. |
| aws.glue.iam_role_arn         | No       | The ARN of the IAM role that has privileges on your AWS Glue Data Catalog. If you use the assumed role-based authentication method to access AWS Glue, you must specify this parameter. |
| aws.glue.region               | Yes      | The region in which your AWS Glue Data Catalog resides. Example: `us-west-1`. |
| aws.glue.access_key           | No       | The access key of your AWS IAM user. If you use the IAM user-based authentication method to access AWS Glue, you must specify this parameter. |
| aws.glue.secret_key           | No       | The secret key of your AWS IAM user. If you use the IAM user-based authentication method to access AWS Glue, you must specify this parameter. |

For information about how to choose an authentication method for accessing AWS Glue and how to configure an access control policy in the AWS IAM Console, see [Authentication parameters for accessing AWS Glue](../../integrations/authenticate_to_aws_resources.md#authentication-parameters-for-accessing-aws-glue).

##### Custom metadata service

If you use a custom metadata service for your Iceberg cluster, you need to create a custom catalog class (the class name of the custom catalog cannot be the same as the name of any class that already exists in StarRocks) and implement the related interface in StarRocks so that StarRocks can access the custom metadata service. The custom catalog class needs to inherit the abstract class `BaseMetastoreCatalog`. After the custom catalog is created, package the catalog and its related files, place them under the **fe/lib** path of each FE, and then restart each FE.

After you complete the preceding operations, you can create an Iceberg catalog and configure its properties.

| **Property**           | **Required** | **Description**                                              |
| ---------------------- | ------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| type                   | Yes          | The type of the data source. Set the value to `iceberg`.      |
| iceberg.catalog.type   | Yes          | The type of the catalog configured your Iceberg cluster. Set the value to `CUSTOM`. |
| iceberg.catalog-impl   | Yes          | The fully qualified class name of the custom catalog. FEs search for the catalog based on this name. If the custom catalog contains custom configuration items, you must add them to the `PROPERTIES` parameter as key-value pairs when you create an Iceberg catalog. |

#### `StorageCredentialParams`

A set of parameters about how StarRocks integrates with your storage system. This parameter set is optional.

You need to configure `StorageCredentialParams` only when your Iceberg cluster uses AWS S3 as storage.

If your Iceberg cluster uses any other storage system, you can ignore `StorageCredentialParams`.

##### AWS S3

If you choose AWS S3 as storage for your Iceberg cluster, take one of the following actions:

- To choose the instance profile-based authentication method, configure `StorageCredentialParams` as follows:

  ```SQL
  "aws.s3.use_instance_profile" = "true",
  "aws.s3.region" = "<aws_s3_region>"
  ```

- To choose the assumed role-based authentication method, configure `StorageCredentialParams` as follows:

  ```SQL
  "aws.s3.use_instance_profile" = "true",
  "aws.s3.iam_role_arn" = "<iam_role_arn>",
  "aws.s3.region" = "<aws_s3_region>"
  ```

- To choose the IAM user-based authentication method, configure `StorageCredentialParams` as follows:

  ```SQL
  "aws.s3.use_instance_profile" = "false",
  "aws.s3.access_key" = "<iam_user_access_key>",
  "aws.s3.secret_key" = "<iam_user_secret_key>",
  "aws.s3.region" = "<aws_s3_region>"
  ```

The following table describes the parameters you need to configure in `StorageCredentialParams`.

| Parameter                   | Required | Description                                                  |
| --------------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| aws.s3.use_instance_profile | Yes      | Specifies whether to enable the instance profile-based authentication method and the assumed role-based authentication method. Valid values: `true` and `false`. Default value: `false`. |
| aws.s3.iam_role_arn         | No       | The ARN of the IAM role that has privileges on your AWS S3 bucket. If you use the assumed role-based authentication method to access AWS S3, you must specify this parameter. |
| aws.s3.region               | Yes      | The region in which your AWS S3 bucket resides. Example: `us-west-1`. |
| aws.s3.access_key           | No       | The access key of your IAM user. If you use the IAM user-based authentication method to access AWS S3, you must specify this parameter. |
| aws.s3.secret_key           | No       | The secret key of your IAM user. If you use the IAM user-based authentication method to access AWS S3, you must specify this parameter. |

For information about how to choose an authentication method for accessing AWS S3 and how to configure an access control policy in AWS IAM Console, see [Authentication parameters for accessing AWS S3](../../integrations/authenticate_to_aws_resources.md#authentication-parameters-for-accessing-aws-s3).

##### S3-compatible storage system

If you choose an S3-compatible storage system, such as MinIO, as storage for your Iceberg cluster, configure `StorageCredentialParams` as follows to ensure a successful integration:

```SQL
"aws.s3.enable_ssl" = "{true | false}",
"aws.s3.enable_path_style_access" = "{true | false}",
"aws.s3.endpoint" = "<s3_endpoint>",
"aws.s3.access_key" = "<iam_user_access_key>",
"aws.s3.secret_key" = "<iam_user_secret_key>"
```

The following table describes the parameters you need to configure in `StorageCredentialParams`.

| Parameter                        | Required | Description                                                  |
| -------------------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| aws.s3.enable_ssl                | Yes      | Specifies whether to enable SSL connection.<br>Valid values: `true` and `false`. Default value: `true`. |
| aws.s3.enable_path_style_access  | Yes      | Specifies whether to enable path-style access.<br>Valid values: `true` and `false`. Default value: `false`.<br>Path-style URLs use the following format: `https://s3.<region_code>.amazonaws.com/<bucket_name>/<key_name>`. For example, if you create a bucket named `DOC-EXAMPLE-BUCKET1` in the US West (Oregon) Region, and you want to access the `alice.jpg` object in that bucket, you can use the following path-style URL: `https://s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/DOC-EXAMPLE-BUCKET1/alice.jpg`. |
| aws.s3.endpoint                  | Yes      | The endpoint that is used to connect to your S3-compatible storage system instead of AWS S3. |
| aws.s3.access_key                | Yes      | The access key of your IAM user. |
| aws.s3.secret_key                | Yes      | The secret key of your IAM user. |

### Examples

The following examples create an Iceberg catalog named `iceberg_catalog_hms` or `iceberg_catalog_glue`, depending on the type of metastore you use, to query data from your Iceberg cluster.

#### AWS S3

##### If you choose instance profile-based credential

- If you use Hive metastore in your Iceberg cluster, run a command like below:

  ```SQL
  CREATE EXTERNAL CATALOG iceberg_catalog_hms
  PROPERTIES
  (
      "type" = "iceberg",
      "aws.s3.use_instance_profile" = "true",
      "aws.s3.region" = "us-west-2",
      "iceberg.catalog.hive.metastore.uris" = "thrift://xx.xx.xx:9083"
  );
  ```

- If you use AWS Glue in your Amazon EMR Iceberg cluster, run a command like below:

  ```SQL
  CREATE EXTERNAL CATALOG iceberg_catalog_glue
  PROPERTIES
  (
      "type" = "iceberg",
      "aws.s3.use_instance_profile" = "true",
      "aws.s3.region" = "us-west-2",
      "hive.metastore.type" = "glue",
      "aws.glue.use_instance_profile" = "true",
      "aws.glue.region" = "us-west-2"
  );
  ```

##### If you choose assumed role-based credential

- If you use Hive metastore in your HIceberg cluster, run a command like below:

  ```SQL
  CREATE EXTERNAL CATALOG iceberg_catalog_hms
  PROPERTIES
  (
      "type" = "iceberg",
      "aws.s3.use_instance_profile" = "true",
      "aws.s3.iam_role_arn" = "arn:aws:iam::081976408565:role/test_s3_role",
      "aws.s3.region" = "us-west-2",
      "iceberg.catalog.hive.metastore.uris" = "thrift://xx.xx.xx:9083"
  );
  ```

- If you use AWS Glue in your Amazon EMR Iceberg cluster, run a command like below:

  ```SQL
  CREATE EXTERNAL CATALOG iceberg_catalog_glue
  PROPERTIES
  (
      "type" = "iceberg",
      "aws.s3.use_instance_profile" = "true",
      "aws.s3.iam_role_arn" = "arn:aws:iam::081976408565:role/test_s3_role",
      "aws.s3.region" = "us-west-2",
      "hive.metastore.type" = "glue",
      "aws.glue.use_instance_profile" = "true",
      "aws.glue.iam_role_arn" = "arn:aws:iam::081976408565:role/test_glue_role",
      "aws.glue.region" = "us-west-2"
  );
  ```

##### If you choose IAM user-based credential

- If you use Hive metastore in your Iceberg cluster, run a command like below:

  ```SQL
  CREATE EXTERNAL CATALOG iceberg_catalog_hms
  PROPERTIES
  (
      "type" = "iceberg",
      "aws.s3.use_instance_profile" = "false",
      "aws.s3.access_key" = "<iam_user_access_key>",
      "aws.s3.secret_key" = "<iam_user_access_key>",
      "aws.s3.region" = "us-west-2",
      "iceberg.catalog.hive.metastore.uris" = "thrift://xx.xx.xx:9083"
  );
  ```

- If you use AWS Glue in your Amazon EMR Iceberg cluster, run a command like below:

  ```SQL
  CREATE EXTERNAL CATALOG iceberg_catalog_glue
  PROPERTIES
  (
      "type" = "iceberg",
      "aws.s3.use_instance_profile" = "false",
      "aws.s3.access_key" = "<iam_user_access_key>",
      "aws.s3.secret_key" = "<iam_user_secret_key>",
      "aws.s3.region" = "us-west-2",
      "hive.metastore.type" = "glue",
      "aws.glue.use_instance_profile" = "false",
      "aws.glue.access_key" = "<iam_user_access_key>",
      "aws.glue.secret_key" = "<iam_user_secret_key>",
      "aws.glue.region" = "us-west-2"
  );
  ```

#### S3-compatible storage system

Use MinIO as an example. Run a command like below:

```SQL
CREATE EXTERNAL CATALOG iceberg_catalog_hms
PROPERTIES
(
    "type" = "iceberg", 
    "iceberg.catalog.hive.metastore.uris" = "thrift://34.132.15.127:9083",
    "aws.s3.enable_ssl" = "true",
    "aws.s3.enable_path_style_access" = "true",
    "aws.s3.endpoint" = "<s3_endpoint>",
    "aws.s3.access_key" = "<iam_user_access_key>",
    "aws.s3.secret_key" = "<iam_user_secret_key>"
);
```

## View the schema of an Iceberg table

You can use one of the following syntaxes to view the schema of an Iceberg table:

- View schema

  ```SQL
  DESC[RIBE] <catalog_name>.<database_name>.<table_name>
  ```

- View schema and location from the CREATE statement

  ```SQL
  SHOW CREATE TABLE <catalog_name>.<database_name>.<table_name>
  ```

## Query an Iceberg table

1. Use the following syntax to view the databases in your Iceberg cluster:

   ```SQL
   SHOW DATABASES FROM <catalog_name>
   ```

2. Use the following syntax to connect to your target Iceberg database:

   ```SQL
   USE <catalog_name>.<database_name>
   ```

3. Use the following syntax to query the Iceberg table:

   ```SQL
   SELECT count(*) FROM <table_name> LIMIT 10
   ```

## Load data from Iceberg

Suppose you have an OLAP table named `olap_tbl`, you can transform and load data like below:

```SQL
INSERT INTO default_catalog.olap_db.olap_tbl SELECT * FROM iceberg_table
```
