docs/sql-reference/sql-functions/date-time-functions/convert_tz.md, before:

# convert_tz

## Description

Converts a datetime value dt from the time zone given by from_tz to the time zone given by to_tz and returns the resulting value. If the argument is invalid, return NULL.

## Syntax

```sql
DATETIME CONVERT_TZ(DATETIME dt, VARCHAR from_tz, VARCHAR to_tz)`
```

## Examples

```Plain Text
MySQL > select convert_tz('2019-08-01 13:21:03', 'Asia/Shanghai', 'America/Los_Angeles');
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| convert_tz('2019-08-01 13:21:03', 'Asia/Shanghai', 'America/Los_Angeles') |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 2019-07-31 22:21:03                                                       |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+

MySQL > select convert_tz('2019-08-01 13:21:03', '+08:00', 'America/Los_Angeles');
+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| convert_tz('2019-08-01 13:21:03', '+08:00', 'America/Los_Angeles') |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 2019-07-31 22:21:03                                                |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

## keyword

CONVERT_TZ

Commit message:

[Doc] add date functions and update other docs (#12589)
(cherry picked from commit 50060d4cf0d8dd9786a6c4ef50a97dfb2dc46e00)

# Conflicts:
#	docs/TOC.md
#	docs/administration/deploy_cn.md
#	docs/administration/enable_fqdn.md
#	docs/administration/k8s_operator_cn.md
#	docs/sql-reference/sql-functions/bitmap-functions/base64_to_bitmap.md
#	docs/sql-reference/sql-functions/date-time-functions/date_add.md
#	docs/sql-reference/sql-functions/date-time-functions/date_sub.md
#	docs/using_starrocks/Materialized_view.md

docs/sql-reference/sql-functions/date-time-functions/convert_tz.md, after:

# convert_tz

## Description

Converts a datetime value dt from the time zone given by from_tz to the time zone given by to_tz and returns the resulting value. If the argument is invalid, return NULL.

This function may return different results for different time zones. For more information, see [Configure a time zone](../../../using_starrocks/timezone.md).

## Syntax

```sql
DATETIME CONVERT_TZ(DATETIME dt, VARCHAR from_tz, VARCHAR to_tz)`
```

## Examples

```Plain Text
MySQL > select convert_tz('2019-08-01 13:21:03', 'Asia/Shanghai', 'America/Los_Angeles');
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| convert_tz('2019-08-01 13:21:03', 'Asia/Shanghai', 'America/Los_Angeles') |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 2019-07-31 22:21:03                                                       |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+

MySQL > select convert_tz('2019-08-01 13:21:03', '+08:00', 'America/Los_Angeles');
+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| convert_tz('2019-08-01 13:21:03', '+08:00', 'America/Los_Angeles') |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 2019-07-31 22:21:03                                                |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

## keyword

CONVERT_TZ
