docs/sql-reference/sql-functions/date-time-functions/last_day.md, before:

# last_day

## Description

Returns the last day of the specified date part for a date or datetime.

## Syntax

```SQL
DATE last_day(DATETIME|DATE expr1, [VARCHAR expr2])
```

## Parameters

- `expr1`: is a date or datetime expression.

- `expr2`: is an optional parameter. can be `month`, `quarter`,`year`, default to `month`.

## Return value

Returns a DATE value.

## Examples

```Plain
MySQL > select last_day('2023-05-10', 'month');
+----------------------------------+
| last_day('2023-05-10', 'month') |
+----------------------------------+
| 2023-05-31                       |
+----------------------------------+

MySQL > select last_day('2023-05-10', 'quarter');
+-------------------------------+
| last_day('2023-05-10', 'quarter') |
+-------------------------------+
| 2023-06-30                    |
+-------------------------------+

MySQL > select last_day('2023-05-10', 'year');
+---------------------------------------+
| last_day('2023-05-10', 'year') |
+---------------------------------------+
| 2023-12-31                            |
+---------------------------------------+
```

## keyword

LAST_DAY, LAST

Commit message:

[Enhancement] refactor date_diff function (#28276) (#28721)
backport #27063, #27787, #28276


Signed-off-by: xuzifu666 <1206332514@qq.com>
Signed-off-by: evelynzhaojie <everlyn.zhaojie@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: silverbullet233 <3675229+silverbullet233@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: xuzifu666 <1206332514@qq.com>
Co-authored-by: evelyn.zhaojie <everlyn.zhaojie@gmail.com>

docs/sql-reference/sql-functions/date-time-functions/last_day.md, after:

# last_day

## Description

Returns the last day of an input DATE or DATETIME expression based on the specified date part. For example, `last_day('2023-05-10', 'month')` returns the last day of the month in which '2023-05-10' falls.

If the date part is not specified, this function returns the last day of the month for a given date.

This function is supported from v3.1.

## Syntax

```SQL
DATE last_day(DATETIME|DATE date_expr[, VARCHAR unit])
```

## Parameters

- `date_expr`: a DATE or DATETIME expression, required.

- `unit`: the date part, optional. Valid values include `month`, `quarter`, and `year`, default to `month`. If `unit` is invalid, an error is returned.

## Return value

Returns a DATE value.

## Examples

```Plain
MySQL > select last_day('2023-05-10', 'month');
+----------------------------------+
| last_day('2023-05-10', 'month')  |
+----------------------------------+
| 2023-05-31                       |
+----------------------------------+

MySQL > select last_day('2023-05-10');
+------------------------+
| last_day('2023-05-10') |
+------------------------+
| 2023-05-31             |
+------------------------+

MySQL > select last_day('2023-05-10', 'quarter');
+-----------------------------------+
| last_day('2023-05-10', 'quarter') |
+-----------------------------------+
| 2023-06-30                        |
+-----------------------------------+

MySQL > select last_day('2023-05-10', 'year');
+---------------------------------------+
| last_day('2023-05-10', 'year')        |
+---------------------------------------+
| 2023-12-31                            |
+---------------------------------------+
```

## keyword

LAST_DAY, LAST
