docs/sql-reference/sql-functions/date-time-functions/str_to_date.md, before:

# str_to_date

## Description

Converts a string to a DATE value according to the specified format. If the conversion fails, NULL is returned.

The format must be consistent with that described in [date_format](./date_format.md).

## Syntax

```Haskell
DATETIME STR_TO_DATE(VARCHAR str, VARCHAR format)
```

## Examples

```Plain Text
MySQL > select str_to_date('2014-12-21 12:34:56', '%Y-%m-%d %H:%i:%s');
+---------------------------------------------------------+
| str_to_date('2014-12-21 12:34:56', '%Y-%m-%d %H:%i:%s') |
+---------------------------------------------------------+
| 2014-12-21 12:34:56                                     |
+---------------------------------------------------------+

MySQL > select str_to_date('2014-12-21 12:34:56', '%Y-%m-%d %H:%i:%s');
+--------------------------------------------------------------+
| str_to_date('2014-12-21 12:34%3A56', '%Y-%m-%d %H:%i:%s') |
+--------------------------------------------------------------+
| 2014-12-21 12:34:56                                          |
+--------------------------------------------------------------+

MySQL > select str_to_date('200442 Monday', '%X%V %W');
+-----------------------------------------+
| str_to_date('200442 Monday', '%X%V %W') |
+-----------------------------------------+
| 2004-10-18                              |
+-----------------------------------------+
```

## keyword

STR_TO_DATE,STR,TO,DATE

Commit message:

[Doc] add date functions and update other docs (#12589)
(cherry picked from commit 50060d4cf0d8dd9786a6c4ef50a97dfb2dc46e00)

# Conflicts:
#	docs/TOC.md
#	docs/administration/deploy_cn.md
#	docs/administration/enable_fqdn.md
#	docs/administration/k8s_operator_cn.md
#	docs/sql-reference/sql-functions/bitmap-functions/base64_to_bitmap.md
#	docs/sql-reference/sql-functions/date-time-functions/date_add.md
#	docs/sql-reference/sql-functions/date-time-functions/date_sub.md
#	docs/using_starrocks/Materialized_view.md

docs/sql-reference/sql-functions/date-time-functions/str_to_date.md, after:

# str_to_date

## Description

Converts a string into a DATETIME value according to the specified format. If the conversion fails, NULL is returned.

The format must be consistent with that described in [date_format](./date_format.md).

This function is inverse to [date_format](./date_format.md).

## Syntax

```Haskell
DATETIME STR_TO_DATE(VARCHAR str, VARCHAR format)
```

## Parameters

`str`: the time expression you want to convert. It must be of the VARCHAR type.

`format`: the format used to return the value. For the supported format, see [date_format](./date_format.md).

## Return value

Returns a value of the DATETIME type. If `format` specifies a date, a DATE value is returned.

NULL is returned if `str` or `format` is NULL.

## Examples

Example 1: Convert the input into a DATETIME value.

```Plain Text
MySQL > select str_to_date('2014-12-21 12:34:56', '%Y-%m-%d %H:%i:%s');
+---------------------------------------------------------+
| str_to_date('2014-12-21 12:34:56', '%Y-%m-%d %H:%i:%s') |
+---------------------------------------------------------+
| 2014-12-21 12:34:56                                     |
+---------------------------------------------------------+
```

Example 2: Convert the input into a DATE value.

```Plain Text
MySQL > select str_to_date('2014-12-21 12:34:56', '%Y-%m-%d %H:%i:%s');
+--------------------------------------------------------------+
| str_to_date('2014-12-21 12:34%3A56', '%Y-%m-%d %H:%i:%s') |
+--------------------------------------------------------------+
| 2014-12-21 12:34:56                                          |
+--------------------------------------------------------------+
```

Example 3: Convert the input "200442 Monday" into a DATE value.

```Plain Text
MySQL > select str_to_date('200442 Monday', '%X%V %W');
+-----------------------------------------+
| str_to_date('200442 Monday', '%X%V %W') |
+-----------------------------------------+
| 2004-10-18                              |
+-----------------------------------------+
```

## keyword

STR_TO_DATE,STR,TO,DATE
